Section 1  5552.08 3|anuarp £-s: 

1. The time is great, what times are little? To the sentinel that hour is regal when he mounts on guard. - Spanish Gypsy. 

2. It's well we should feel as life's a reckonin we can’t make twice over; there's n o rea making amends in this world, any more nor you can mend a wrong
subtraction by doing your addition right.-Adam Bede. 

3. The golden
moments in the stream of life rush past us, and we see nothing but sand;
the angels come to visit us, and we only know them when they are
gone.-Janet's Repentance. 

4: Self-confidence is apt to address itself to
an imaginary dullness in others. -Daniel Deronda. 

5. Wise books for half
the truths they hold are honored tombs.-Spanish Gypsy. 

6. Nettle seed needs no digging.— Middlemarch. 

7. Neighborly kindness is among those £
that are the more precious the older they get.-Adam Bede. 

preciousness to mortal hearts is guarded by a fear-Spanish Gypsy. 

9. Our guides, we pre- tend, must be
sinless; as if those were not often \* the best teachers who only
yesterday got corrected for their mistakes.-Daniel Deronda. Io. Our
daily familiar life is but a hiding of ourselves from each other be-
hind a screen of trivial words and deeds. -Janet's Repentance. 

11. The
happiest women, like the happiest nations, have no history.-The Mill on
the Floss. 

12. Commonness is its own security. -Armgart. 

13. You must
learn to deal with odd and even in life, as well as in figures.- Adam
Bede. 

14. The higher life must be a region in which the affections are
clad with knowledge.—Daniel Deronda. . 

HERE are possibilities £-, which our minds shrink
\#9" from too completely for us to fear them.—The Mill on the Floss. 16.
People say what they like to say, not what they have chapter and verse
for.-Middlemarch. 17. The gods have a curse for him who willingly tells
another the wrong road.-Daniel Deronda. 18. We are £ plants buoyed up by
the air vessels of our own conceit.- Amos Barton. 19. The charm of fond
words van- ishes when one repeats them to the indifferent.—Adam Bede.
... 20. People who seem to enjoy their ill-temper have a way of keeping
it in a fine condition by inflicting privations on themselves.—The Mill
on the Floss. 21. Nature,that great tragic dramatist, knits us together
by bone and muscle, and divides us by the subtler web of our brains;
blends yearning and repulsion, and ties us by our heart-strings to the
beings that jar us at every movement.- Adam Bede. -- - --&gt; - This
page contains an image.  NE must be poor to know the
luxury of giving.— Middlemarch. 23. I will to make life less bitter for
a few with- in my reach.—Felix Holt. 24. That is a deep and wide saying,
that no miracles can be wrought without faith—without the worker's faith
in himself, as well as the recipient's faith in him.—Amos Barton. 25.
Who shall put his finger on the work of justice and say, “It is there!”
Justice is like the kingdom of God—it is not without us as a fact, it is
within us as a great yearning.-Romola. 26. A pig may poke his nose into
a trough and think o' nothing outside it; but if you’ve got a man's
heart and soul in you, you can’t be easy a-making your bed an’ leaving
the rest to lie on stones. -Adam Bede. 27. As soon as men found out they
had more brains than oxen, they set the oxen to draw for them.-Romola.
28. Perhaps the wind wails so in winter for the summers dead, and all
sad sounds are nature's funeral cries for what has been and is
not.—Spanish Gypsy. . .
Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt;
Section 2  HE Highest speaks through all our people's
voice, Custom, tradition, and old sanctities; Or he reveals himself by
new decrees Of inward certitude.— Spanish Gypsy. 30. Do we not all agree
to call rapid thought and noble impulse by the name of inspiration?
After our subtlest analy- sis of the mental process, we must still say
that our highest thoughts and our best deeds are all given to us.-Adam
TBede. 31. Our mental business is carried on much in the same way as the
business of the state: a great deal of hard work is done by agents who
are not acknowl- edged.-Adam Bede. . End of
Section 2. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 3  februarp Oman can begin to mould
himself on a faith or an idea without rising to a higher order of
experi- ence.-Janet's Repentance. 2. It's always good to know, if only
in passing, a charming human being—it refreshes one like flowers, and
birds and clear brooks.-Life and Letters. 3. At the last moment there is
always a reason not £ before-namely, the impossibility of further
vacillation.-Felix Holt. 4. Love is natural; but surely pity and
faithfulness and memory are natural too. —The Mill on the Floss. 5. The
beings closest to us, whether in love or hate, are virtually often our
interpreters of the world.-Taniel De- ronda. 6; , Deep, unspeakable
suffering may well be called a baptism, a regeneration, the initiation
into a new state.-Adam T!ede. 7. The exhaustion consequent on vio- lent
emotion is apt to bring a dreamy disbelief in the reality of its cause.-
Tomola. .  Sī HAVE always been
think- \\: ing of the different ways 'S in which Cristianity is \* M
taught, and whenever I find one way that makes it a wider blessing than
any other, I cling to that as the truest.—Middlemarch. 9. Receptiveness
is a rare and massive power, like fortitude.-Daniel Deronda. Io. All
eyes can see when light flows out from God.-The Legend of Jubal. 11. The
yoke a man creates for him- self by wrong-doing will breed hate in the
kindliest nature.-Silas Marner. 12. What we call our despair, is often
the painful eagerness of unfed hope.- Middlemarch. 13. Old maids'
husbands are al’ys well managed. If you was a wife you'd be as foolish
as your betters, belike.— Amos Barton. 14. The repentance which cuts off
all moorings to evil, demands something more than selfish fear.-Romola.
.  OULS live on in perpetual
echoes.-Middlemarch. 16. Better a wrong will than a wavering; better a
steadfast enemy than an uncertain friend; better a false belief than no
belief at all.-Daniel Deronda. I7. Thought Has joys apart, even in
blackest WOe, And seizing some fine thread of verity Knows momentary
godhead. -Spanish Gypsy. 18. It's allays the way wi'them meek- faced
people; you may’s well pelt a bag o' feathers as talk to 'em.—Adam Bede.
19. To be right in great memorable moments, is perhaps the thing we need
most desire for ourselves.-Felix Holt. 20. The fuller nature desires to
be an agent, to create, and not merely to look on.-Daniel Deronda. 21.
The terror of being judged sharpens the memory.-Middlemarch. This page
contains an image. . Continue to next section or go to
Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 4  februarp HAT
prejudices will hold out against helplessness and broken prattle?— Mr.
Gilfil's Love Story. 23. Oh the anguish of that thought that we can
never atone to our dead for the stinted affection we gave them.- Amos
Barton. 24. Royal deeds may make long destinies for multitudes.-Spanish
Gypsy. 25. Time is like the sibylline leaves, getting more precious the
less there remains of it.-Life and Letters. 26. Life itself may not
express us all, may leave the worst and the best too, like tunes in
mechanism never awaked. -Spanish Gypsy. 27. My life shall grow like
trees both tall and fair that rise and spread and bloom toward fuller
fruit each year.- The Legend of Jubal. 28. Cleanliness is sometimes a
pain- ful good, as anyone can vouch who has had his face washed the
wrong way, by a pitiless hand with a gold ring on the third finger.—Mr.
Gilfil’s Love Story. .  her own
likeness the love- Śll tokens that are offered l to her.-Romola. 2. You
make but a poor - trap to catch luck if you - \* go and bait it by
wicked- ness.-Adam Bede. 3. Reverent love has a politeness of its
own.-Silas Marner. 4: Life is not rounded in an epigram, and saying
aught, we leave a world unsaid.-Armgart. 5. Our dead are never dead to
us until we have forgotten them.-Adam Bede. 6. Hard speech between those
who have loved is hideous in the memory, like the sight of greatness and
beauty sunk into vice and rags.-Romola. 7. We have all of us
considerable regard for our past self, and are not fond of casting
reflections on that respected individual by a total negation of his
opinions.-Janet's Repentance. . No page
number DEAS are often poor ghosts; our sun-filled eyes cannot discern
them; they pass athwart us in thin vapor, and cannot make themselves
felt.— Janet's Repentance. . Affection is the broadest basis of good in
life.-Daniel Deronda. Io. There's a sort of wrong that can never be made
up for.-Adam Bede. II. The truth is the hardest missile one can be
pelted with.—Middlemarch. 12. We have all our secret sins; and if we
knew ourselves, we should not judge each other harshly.-Mr. Gilfil's
Love Story. 13. So our lives glide on: the river ends, we don’t know
where, and the sea begins, and then there is no jumping ashore.—Felix
Holt. I4. No £ is certain, but the stead- fast mind, the individual will
to seek the good.-Spanish Gypsy. . No page
number E reap what we sow, but nature has love over and above that
justice, and gives us shadow and blos- som and fruit, that spring from
no planting of ours. -Janet's Repentance. 16. It takes very little water
to make a perfect pool for a tiny fish.-Romola. 17. Ignorant power comes
in the end to the same thing as wicked power; it makes misery.—Felix
Holt. 18. A good solid bit o' work lasts; if it's only laying a floor
down, somebody's the better for it being done well, besides the man as
does it.-Adam Bede. 19. A woman should produce the effect of exquisite
music.–Middlemarch. 20. For me 'tis what I love determines how I
love.-Spanish Gypsy. 21. It is one thing to see your road, another to
cut it.-Daniel Deronda. .  T is
not true that love makes all things easy: it makes us choose what is
difficult.—Felix Holt. 23. There is a chill air surrounding those who
are down in the world, and the people are £ to get away from them, as
from a cold room.-The Mill on the Floss. 24. . When we desire eagerly to
find something, we are apt to search in hope- less places.—Adam Bede.
25. Net the large fish and you are sure to have the small fry.-Amos
Barton. 26. Conscience is harder than our enemies, knows more, accuses
with more nicety.-Spanish Gypsy. 27. Perfect love has a breath of poetry
which can exalt the relations of the least- instructed human
beings.-Silas Marner. 28. There is no hopelessness so sad as that of
early youth, when the soul is made up of wants, and has no long mem-
ories, no super-added life in the life of others.—The Mill on the Floss.
.  LL earthly things have their
lull; even on nights when the most unappeas- able wind is raging there
will be a moment of still- ness before it crashes © among the boughs
again, and storms against £ windows, and howls like a thousand lost
demons through the keyholes.—Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 30. Life at least
gives choice of ills— forces me to defy, but shall not force me to a
weak defiance.-Spanish Gypsy. 31. Marriage, which has been the bourne of
so many narratives, is still a beginning, as it was to Adam and Eve, who
kept their honeymoon in Eden, but had their first little one among the
thorns and thistles of the wilderness.-Middle- march. This page contains
an image. . Continue to next section or go to Table of
Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 5  T is surely better to
par- don too much than to condemn too much.- Middlemarch. 2. The right
to rebellion \# is the right to seek a higher rule, and not to wander in
mere lawlessness.—Felix Holt. 3. Sacraments are not to feed the paupers
of the world.-Armgart. 4. Speech is but broken light upon the depth of
the unspoken.-Spanish Gypsy. 5. If ghos'es want me to believe in 'em,
let 'em leave off skulking i' the dark and i' lone places-let ’em come
where there's company and candles.- Silas Marner. 6. The only failure a
man ought to fear is failure in cleaving to the purpose he sees to be
best.—Felix Holt. In every parting there is an image of death.-Amos
Barton. S: & Š .  - HERE's
allays two 'pin- ions; there's the 'pinion 9° a man has of himsen - - 9
! and there's the 'pinion Z' other folks have on him. There'd be two
'pinions about a cracked bell, if the bell could hear itself.-Silas
Marner. 9. We hand folks over to God's mercy, and show none
ourselves.-Adam Bede. Io. Among all the many kinds of first love, that
which begins in childish com- panionship is the strongest and most en-
during.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 11. A passionate hate, as well as a
pas- sionate love, demands some leisure and mental freedom.-Janet's
Repentance. 12. , If you are to rule men, you must rule them through
their own ideas.- Daniel Deronda. \# You must love your work, and not be
always looking over the edge of it, want- ing your play to
begin.-Middlemarch. 14. The best fire doesna flare up the soonest.-Adam
Bede. .  HEN death, the great
re- conciler, has come, it is never our tenderness that we repent of,
but our se- verity.-Adam Bede. 16. No great deed is \* done by falterers
who ask for certainty.—Spanish Gypsy. 17. People who live at a distance
are naturally less faulty than those immedi- ately under our own
eyes.—The Mill on the Floss. 18. It is seldom that the miserable can
help regarding their misery as a wrong inflicted by those who are less
miserable. -Silas Marner. 19. Yes, yes; paternosters may shave clean,
but they must be said over a good razor.-Romola. 20. Truth has rough
flavors if we bite it through.-Armgart. 21. We can hardly learn humility
and tenderness enough except by suffer- ing.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story.
.  T is a sad weakness in us,
after all, that the thought of a man's death hallows him anew to us; as
if life were not sacred too.— Janet's Repentance. 23. Perfect scheming
demands omniscience.-Romola. 24. It's poor foolishness to run down your
enemies.—Adam Bede. 25. The stronger thing is not to give up power, but
to use it well.–Middle- march. 26. The greatest gift the hero leaves his
race, is to have been a hero.-Spanish Gypsy. 27. Love gives insight, and
insight often gives foreboding-The Mill on the Floss. 28. We are all of
us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our
supreme selves.-Middle- march. . End of
Section 5. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 6  2(pril S''' - -, - ... -- \*-\*:
- - .4”:-- \*\*\*wa.-- - \*: SHEPPERTON CHURCH. £-s: HERE is \# pain\# -
P is quite noiseless.-Feli £ \#: Qu e 62/1% Holt. 30. If you could make
a pudding wi' thinking o' the batter, it 'ud be easy getting
dinner.-Adam .  F there is an
angel who records the sorrows of men as well as their sins, he knows how
many and deep are the sorrows that spring from false ideas for which no
man is cul- pable.-Silas Marner. 2. The delicate-tendrilled plant must
have something to cling to.—Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 3. Iteration, like
friction, is likely to generate heat instead of progress.-The Mill on
the Floss. 4. That is the great advantage of dialogue on horseback; it
can be merged any minute into a trot or a canter, and one might have
escaped from Socrates himself in the saddle.—Adam Bede. 5. I think
cheerfulness is a fortune in itself.-Daniel Deronda. 6. A man's own
safety is a god that sometimes makes very grim demands.- Romola. 7.
Don't let us rejoice in punishment, even when the hand of God alone
inflicts it.-Janet's Repentance. . No page
number E may strive and scrat and fend, but it's little we can & do
arter all—the big things \# come and go wi' no striv- ing o' our’n. -
Silas Marner. . The running brook is na athirst for th’ rain.-Adam Bede.
Io. Whenever an artist has been able to say, “I came, I saw, I
conquered,” it has been at the end of patient practice. -Taniel Deronda.
11. One of the tortures of jealousy is, that it can never turn away its
eyes from the thing that pains it.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 12. I
believe that people are almost always better than their neighbors think
they are.-Middlemarch. 13. , I choose to walk high with sub- limer dread
rather than crawl in safety. -Armgart. 14. The tale of the Divine Pity
was never yet believed from lips that were not felt to be moved by human
pity.-Janet's Repentance. . 
INGLED seed must bear a mingled crop.- The Mill on the Floss. 16. So
much of our early gladness vanishes utterly from our mem- "\# but the
first glad moments in our first love is a vision which returns to us to
the last.-Adam Tiede. 17. Love comes to cancel all ancestral hate,
subdues all heritage, proves that in mankind union is deeper than
division. -Spanish Gypsy. 18. There is no killing the suspicion that
deceit has once begotten.-Romola. 19. What do we live for, if it is not
to make life less difficult to each other? —Middlemarch. 20. Man thinks
brutes have no wis- dom, since they know not his.-Spanish Gypsy. 21.
There's things to put up wi' in ivery place, an’ you may change an’
change an’ not better yourself when all’s said an’ done.-Janet's
Repentance. .  T'S easy finding
reasons why other folks should be patient.-Adam Bede. 23. In the love of
a brave and faithful man there is always a strain of maternal
tenderness.- Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 24. The effective accident is but
the touch of fire where there is oil and tow. -Middlemarch. 25. It's
like the night and the morn- ing, and the sleeping and the waking, and
the rain and the harvest-one goes and the other comes and we know
nothing how nor where.-Silas Marner. 26. I hate your epigrams and
pointed saws whose narrow truth is but broad falsity.-Armgart. 27.
Experience differs for different people. We don’t all wince at the same
things.-Daniel Deronda. 28. Fighting for dear life men choose their
swords for cutting only, not for ornament.-Spanish Gypsy. This page
contains an image.  LWAYS there is seed be- ing sown
silently and unseen, and every where there come sweet flowers without
our foresight or labor.-Janet's Repent- \* Q77 Cé. 30. In old days there
were angels who came and took men by the hand and led them away from the
city of destruction. We see no white-winged angels now. But yet men are
led away from threatening destruction: a hand is put into theirs, which
leads them forth gently towards a calm and bright land, so that they
look no more backward; and the hand may be a little child's.— Silas
Marner. 31. I think all lines of the human face have something either
touching or rand, unless they seem to come from ow passions.-Romola.
.  HE first sense of mutual
love excludes other feel- \#" ings; it will have the soul t \* ! & ! all
to itself.—Adam Bede. PN, : £, 2. There are natures in 3 SN which, if
they love us, we \*\* are conscious of having a sort of baptism and
consecration.-Mid- dlemarch. 3. It is mere cowardice to seek safety in
negations.-The Mill on the Floss. 4. Strong souls live like fire-hearted
suns to spend their strength in farthest striving action; breathe more
free in mighty anguish than in trivial ease.- Spanish Gypsy. 5. Them as
ha’ never had a cushion don’t miss it.-Adam Bede. 6. Errors look so very
ugly in persons of small means-one feels they are taking quite a liberty
in going astray.-Janet's Repentance. 7. Our deeds are like children that
are born to us; they live and act apart from our own will.-Romola. This
page contains an image.  HERE are conditions \*N\*- under
which the most \*9% majestic person is obliged Sº to
sneeze.–Middlemarch. Æ • s', 9. Any coward can fight a battle when he’s
sure \* of winning; but give me the man who has pluck to fight when he's
sure of losing.-Janet's Repentance. Io. Trouble makes us treat all who
feel with us, very much alike.-Adam Bede. II. A mother dreads no
memories- those shadows have all melted away in the dawn of baby's
smile.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 12. The thing we look forward to often
comes to pass, but never precisely in the way we have imagined to our-
selves.—Amos Barton. 13. There is no kind of conscious obedience that is
not an advance on law- lessness.-Romola. 14. I couldn’t live in peace if
I put the shadow of a wilful sin between my- self and God.—The Mill on
the Floss. .  SUPPRESSED
resolve will betray itself in the eyes.—The Mill on the Floss. 16.
Pre-eminence is sweet to those who love it, even under mediocre circum-
stances. Perhaps it was not quite mythical that a slave has been proud
to be bought first.-Taniel TPeronda. \# Wherever affection can spring,
it is like the green leaf and the blossom— pure, and breathing purity,
whatever soil it may grow in.-Romola. 18. Many an irritating fault, many
an unlovely oddity, has come of a hard sorrow.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story.
19. There is a wonderful amount of sustenance in the first few words of
love. -Amos Barton. 20. Prudence is but conceit hood- winked by
ignorance.-Spanish Gypsy. 21. The soul without still helps the soul
within, and its deft magic ends what we begin.-The Legend of Jubal. This
page contains an image.  LD men's eyes are like old men's
memories; they are strongest for things along way off.-Romola. 23. No
soul is desolate as long as there is a human being for whom it can feel
trust and reverence.-Romola. 24. The devil tempts us not-'tis we tempt
him.—Felix Holt. 25. There's no blameless life save for the
passionless.-Spanish Gypsy. 26. Much grain is wasted in the world and
rots; why not thy handful? -Armgart. 27. One's self-satisfaction is an
un- taxed kind of property which it is very unpleasant to find
depreciated.-Middle- march. 28. We shall all on us be dead some time, I
reckon; it 'ud be better if folks 'ud make much on us beforehand i'stid
o’ beginnin’ when we’re gone. It's but little good you’ll do a-watering
the last year's crop.-Adam Bede. . End of
Section 6. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 7  - \#|| | | |--- | -| | -|| --
-|||- --- E. | \# - - - - | - - | - - - ---&gt; |--|-- - - - - - T- - -
.. "... - |- \#|||||||||| it. | \*assassas" ------- | | | --&gt;"… - -
GRIFF HOUSE-\*\*THE WARM LITTLE NEST WHERE HER AFFECTIONS WERE FLEDGED.”
SIMPLY declare my determination not to feed on the broth of lit- erature
when I can get the strong soup.-Life and Letters. 30. Sephardo: Resolve
will melt no rocks. Don Silva: But it can scale them.–Spanish Gypsy. e
.  E could never have loved
/... the earth so well if we 3 had had no childhood in it.—The Mill on
the Floss. 2. Nothing is so good as it seems beforehand. \*—Silas
Marner. 3. College mostly makes people like bladders-just good for
nothing but t’ hold the stuff as is poured into 'em.— Adam Bede. 4.
There has been no great people without processions, and the man who
thinks himself too wise to be moved by them to anything but contempt, is
like the puddle that was proud of standing alone while the river rushed
by.—Felix Holt. 5. Susceptible persons are more affected by a change of
tone than by unexpected words.-Adam Bede. 6. Honey's not sweet,
commended as cathartic.-Spanish Gypsy. 7. There are answers which, in
turn- ing away wrath, only send it to the other end of the
room.–Middlemarch. .  T'S a
small joke sets men laughing when they sit staring at one another with a
pipei their mouths. -Adam Bede. 9. In the ages since Adam's marriage, it
has been good for some men to be alone, and for some women also.-Felix
Holt. Io. The gods of the hearth exist for us still; and let all new
faith be tolerant of that fetishism, lest it bruise its own roots.-Silas
Marner. II. The power of being quiet carries a man well through moments
of embar- rassment.-Daniel Deronda. 12. There are men whose presence
infuses trust and reverence.-Romola. 13. The best intent grasps but a
liv- ing, present which may grow like any unfledged bird.-Armgart. . 14.
In moments high space widens in the soul.-Spanish Gypsy. This page
contains an image.  ORE helpful than all wisdom, is one
draught of simple human pity, that will not forsake us. -The Mill on the
Floss. 16. The homage of a man may be delightful until he asks straight
for love, by which a woman renders homage.-Felix Holt. 17. Watch your
own speech, and notice how it is guided by your less con- scious
purposes.-The Mill on the Floss. 18. Thee mustna undervally prayer.
Prayer mayna bring money, but it brings us what no money can buy-Adam
Bede. 19. Every man’s work, pursued steadily, tends to become an end in
itself, and so to bridge over the loveless chasms of his life.—Silas
Marner. 20. The human soul is hospitable, and will entertain conflicting
sentiments and contradictory opinions with much impartiality.-Romola.
21. Hatred is like fire—it makes even light rubbish deadly.-Janet's
Repentance. .  T is the way
with half the truth amidst which we live, that it only haunts us and
makes dull pulsa- tions that are never born into sound.-Romola. 23.
There is a power in the direct glance of a sincere and loving human
soul, which will do more to dis- sipate prejudice and kindle charity
than the most elaborate arguments.-Janet's TČepentance. . .24. There's
no rule so wise but what it's a pity for somebody or other.-Adam Bede.
25. Perhaps some of the most terrible irony of the human lot is this of
a deep truth coming to be uttered by lips that have no right to
it.-Felix Holt. 26. There is no feeling, perhaps, except the extremes of
fear and grief, that does not find relief in music—that does not make a
man sing or play the better.—The Mill on the Floss. 27. The deepest
hunger of a faithful heart is faithfulness.-Spanish Gypsy. 28. One
morsel's as good as another when your mouth's out o' taste.-Adam TBede.
.  desiring what is per- fectly
good, even when we don’t quite know what it is and cannot do what we
would, we are part of the divine power against evil-widening the skirts
of light and making the struggle with darkness narrower.- Mid- dlemarch.
30. A foreman, if he's got a con- science, and delights in his work,
will do his business as well as if he was a partner. I wouldn't give a
penny for a man as 'ud drive a nail in slack because he didn't get extra
pay for it.-Adam Bede. 31. It has been so with rulers, em- perors, nay,
sages who hold secrets of great Time, sharing his hoary and be- neficent
life-men who sate throned among the multitudes—they have sore sickened
at the loss of one.-Spanish Gypsy. . End of
Section 7. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 8  \#2'i Moses best, in th’ Old £
Testament. He carried \* through, and died when other folks were going
to reap the fruits. —Adam Bede. 3. Was there ever a young lady or
gentleman not ready to give up an un- specified indulgence for the sake
of the favorite one specified?-Taniel Deronda. 4. The saints were
cowards who stood by to see Christ crucified: they should have flung
themselves upon the Roman spears, and died in vain-the grandest death,
to die in vain-for love greater than sways the forces of the
world!-Spanish Gypsy. There's nothing but what's bear- able as long as a
man can work.-Adam Bede. 6. When a man gets a good berth, half the
deserving must come after.- Middlemarch. 7., Ignorance is not so
damnable as humbug, but when it prescribes pills it may happen to do
more harm.-Felix Holt. .  O man
can be wise on an empty stomach.-Adam Tede. 9. There is a great deal of
unmapped country within us which would have to be taken into account in
an explanation of our gusts and storms.-Daniel Deronda. 10. What we call
illusions are often, in truth, a wider vision of past and present
realities.-Felix Holt. 11. Often the soul is ripened into fuller
goodness while age has spread an ugly film, so that mere glances can
never divine the preciousness of the fruit.— Silas Marner. 12. Mrs.
Tulliver, as we have seen, was not without influence over her hus- band.
No woman is; she can always incline him to do either what she wishes, or
the reverse.-The Mill on the Floss. 13. The years deepen the value of
our past to us, and of our friends who are a part of that past.-Life and
Letters. 14. It is very pleasant to see some men turn round; pleasant as
a sudden rush of warm air in winter, or the flash of firelight in the
chill dusk.—Daniel Teronda. . 
EANIN’ goes but a little way i' most things, for you may mean to stick
things together and your glue may be bad, and then where are you?— Silas
Marner. 16. The presence of a noble nature, generous in its wishes,
ardent in its charity, changes the light for us.-Mid- dlemarch. 17. The
very truth hath a color from the disposition of the utterer.—Felix Holt.
18. There's many a good bit o' work done with a sad heart.-Adam Bede.
19. What makes life dreary is the want of motive.-Middlemarch. 20.
Childhood has no forebodings; but then, it is soothed by no memories of
outlived sorrow.—The Mill on the Floss. 21. I will not feed on doing
great tasks ill, Dull the world's sense with mediocri And live by £h
that smothers excellence.-Armgart. . No page
number the power to fulfil an- other-so said Ben Azai. ! -Daniel
Deronda. S. 23. If a prophet is to S. keep his power he must \* be a
prophet like Moham- med, with an army at his back, that when the
people's faith is fainting it may be frightened into life again.-Romola.
24. Resignation is the willing endur- ance of a pain that is not
allayed.-The Mill on the Floss. 25. One likes a “beyond” everywhere.
—Felix Holt. 26. It seems as if them as aren’t wanted here are th' only
folks as aren’t wanted i' th' other world.-Adam Bede. 27. Youth thinks
itself the goal of each old life; Age has but travelled from a far-off
time Just to be ready for youth's service.-Armgart. 28. Our words have
wings, but fly not where we would.-Spanish Gypsy. This page contains an
image.  T allays comes into my head when I'm sorry for
folks, and feel as I can't do a power to help 'em, InOt \#I was to get
up i' the middle o’ the night- it comes into my head as Them above has
got a deal tenderer heart nor what I’ve got—for I can't be any- ways
better nor Them as made me.- Silas Marner. 39. , One of the lessons a
woman most rarely learns, is never to talk to an angry or a drunken
man.-Adam Bede. 31. I can’t abide to see men throw away their tools i'
that way, the minute the clock begins to strike, as if they took no
pleasure i' their work, and was afraid o’ doing a stroke too much ... I
hate to see a man's arms drop down as if he was shot, before the clock's
fairly struck, just as if he'd never a bit o' pride and delight in’s
work. The very grindstone 'ull go on turning a bit after you loose it.-
Adam Bede. .  inborn passion
gives a rebel's right.-Armgart. 2. We look at the one little woman’s
face we love, as we look at the face of our mother earth, and see all
sorts of an- swers to our own yearnings.-Adam Bede. The blessed work of
helping the world forward, happily does not wait to be done by perfect
men.-Janet's Repent- 427, C8. 4. It's a feeling as gives you a sort o'
liberty, as if you £ walk more fear- less, when you’ve more trust in
another than y have in yourself.-Adam Bede. 5. Love has a way of
cheating itself consciously, like a child who plays at solitary
hide-and-seek; it is pleased with assurances that it all the while
disbelieves. —Adam Bede. 6. I say not that compromise is un- necessary,
but it is an evil attendant on our imperfection.-Felix Holt. 7. When
gratitude has become a mat: ter of reasoning, there are many ways of
escaping from its bonds.-Middlemarch. . End
of Section 8. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 9  \$tptember =&lt;\\\\c & EEP,
unspeakable suffer- % ing may well be called a baptism, a regeneration,
| the initiation into a new state.-Adam Bede. £ 9. The shallowness of a
water-nixie's soul may have a charm until she becomes didactic.
-Middlemarch. Io. I’m not denyin' the women are foolish: God Almighty
made 'em to match the men.-Adam Bede. ... II. Excellence encourages one
about life generally; it shows the spiritual wealth of the world.—Daniel
Deronda. 12. Men who are sour at missing larger game May wing a
chattering sparrow for revenge.-Spanish Gypsy. 13. , Speech is often
barren; but silence also does not necessarily brood over a full
nest.—Felix Holt. 14. Souls have complexions too: what will suit one
will not suit another. -Middlemarch. . No
page number EMESIS is lame, but she is of colossal stature, like the
gods.-Janet's Tepentance. 16. Poor relations are undeniably irritating-
their existence is so en- tirely uncalled for on our part.-The Mill on
the Floss. 17. In the man whose childhood has known caresses there is
always a fibre of memory that can be touched to gentle issues.-Janet's
Repentance. 18. In God's war slackness is infamy. -Spanish Gypsy. 19. A
man with a definite will and an energetic personality acts as a sort of
flag to draw and bind together the foolish units of a mob.-Felix Holt.
20. With the sinking of high human trust, the dignity of \# sinks too.-
Romola. 21. Great love has many attributes, and shrines for varied
worshippers.- —Spanish Gypsy. . End of
Section 9. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 10  £eptember HERE are glances of Č
hatred that stab and raise %9° no cry of murder.-Felix A: Holt. £, 23.
Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may be passing on us
beings of wider speculation?—Middle- march. 24. It is a great gift of
the gods to be born with a hatred and contempt of all injustice and
meanness.-Romola. 25. Let us bind love with duty: for duty is the love
of law; and law is the nature of the Eternal.-Daniel Deronda. 26. I own
no love but such as guards my honor.-Spanish Gypsy. 27. A patronizing
disposition always has its meaner side.-Adam Bede. 28. A loving woman’s
world lies within the four walls of her own home. -Amos Barton. This
page contains an image.  HAT greater thing is there for
two human souls, than to feel that they are joined for life—to
strengthen each other in all labor, to rest on each other in all sorrow,
to minister to each other in all pain, to be one with each other in
silent unspeakable memo- ries at the moment of the last parting? -Adam
Bede. 30. See the difference between the impression a man makes on you
when ou walk by his side in familiar talk, or £ at him in his home, and
the figure he makes when seen from a lofty histor- ical level, or even
in the eyes of a critical neighbor, who thinks of him as an em- bodied
system or opinion rather than as a man.-Adam Bede. This page contains an
image.  MILLY BARTON'S COTTAGE. This page contains an
image.  4Dtt0btr UT how will you find good? It is not a
thing of choice: it is a river that flows from the foot of the Invisible
Throne, and flows by the path of obe- - dience.—Romola. 2. It is a vain
thought to flee from \#. work that God appoints us.-Adam 62018. 3. A
woman, let her be as good as she may, has got to put up with the life
her husband makes for her.—Middle- march. 4. I know the dancin's
nonsense; but if you stick at everything because it's nonsense, you
wonna go far i' this life.- Adam Bede. 5. A bachelor's children are
always young: they're immortal children—always lisping, waddling,
helpless, and with a chance of turning out good.-Felix Holt. 6. Worldly
faces never look so worldly as at a funeral.-Janet's Repent- @71 CE, 7.
We can set a watch over our affec- tions and our constancy as we can
over other treasures.–Middlemarch. . No page
number MAKE it a virtue to be content with my mid- dlingness; it is
always | pardonable, so that one does not ask others to take it for
superiority.— Taniel Deronda. . . No man is matriculated to the art of
life until he has been well tempted. —Romola. 10. Language is a stream
that is al- most sure to smack of a mingled soil.- Silas Marner. II.
There are things we must re- nounce in life; some of us must resign
love.—The Mill on the Floss. 12. “Ignorance”, says, Ajax, “is a painless
evil”; so, I should think, is dirt, considering the merry faces that go
along with it.—Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 13. , Our deeds determine us, as
much as we determine our deeds.-Adam Bede. 14. Signs are small
measurable things, but interpretations are illimitable.–Mid- dlemarch. -
.  E are pitiably in subjec-
tion to all sorts of vanity —even the very vanities we are practically
re- nouncing.-Felix Holt. 16. Every man, who is not a monster, a mathe-
matician, or a mad philosopher, is the slave of some woman or
other.-Amos TEarton. 17. The soul of man when it gets fairly rotten will
bear you all sorts of poisonous toadstools.-Middlemarch. 18. We are very
much indebted to such a linking of events as makes a doubt- ful action
look wrong.-Felix Holt. 19. I will seek nothing but to shun base
joy.-Spanish Gypsy. 20. There is no sense of ease like the ease we felt
in those scenes where we were born.—The Mill on the Floss. 21. Human
feeling is like the mighty rivers that bless the earth; it does not wait
for beauty—it flows with resistless \# and brings beauty with it.-Adam
&0&. .  ALF the sorrows of
women would be averted if the could repress the speec they know to be
useless -nay, the speech they have resolved not to utter.—Felix Holt.
23. Scepticism, as we know, can never be thoroughly applied, else life
would come to a stand-still.-Milddlemarch. 24. There's, more of odd than
even in this world. Else pretty sinners would not be let off Sooner than
ugly.-Spanish Gypsy. 25. I have nothing to say again’ \# on’y it's a
pity he couldna be hatched o'er again, an hatched different. —Adam Bede.
26. It is possible to have a strong self- love without any
self-satisfaction, rather with a self-discontent which is the more
intense because one's own little core of egoistic sensibility is a
supreme care. -Daniel Deronda. 27. Among all forms of mistake, prophecy
is the most gratuitous.-Mid- dlemarch. 28. Falsehood is so easy, truth
so dif- ficult.—Adam Bede. . 
OVE does not aim simply | at the conscious good of the beloved object;
it is not satisfied without per- fect loyalty of heart; it aims at its
own complete- ness.-Romola. o Thoughts That nourish us to magnanimity
Grow perfect with more perfect utterance, Gathering full-shapen
strength. -Spanish Gypsy. 31. The strength of the donkey mind lies in
adopting a course inversely as the arguments urged, which, well consid-
ered, requires as great a mental force as the direct sequence.—Adam
Bede. 3O . . Continue to
next section or go to Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 11 No page
number | : : t- -- HERE is always a stronger sense of life when the
SU111 is brilliant after rain.— Adam Bede. 2. Animals are such 9"
agreeable friends—they (\# | ask no questions, they pass no
criticisms.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 3. She who willingly lifts up the
veil of her married life has profaned it from a sanctuary into a vulgar
place.-Romola. 4. There's debts we can't pay like money debts, by paying
extra for the years that have slipped by.—Silas Marner. 5. Blows are
sarcasms turned stupid: wit is a form of force that leaves the limbs at
rest.—Felix Holt. 6. Dear me! Why will people take so much pains to find
out evil about others?—Amos Barton. 7. A feeling of revenge is not worth
much, that you should care to keep it. -The Mill on the Floss. This page
contains an image. . Continue to next section or go to
Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 12  £2008mber
:"VEN a wise man generally \# lets some folly ooze out - | of him in
hiswill.-Taniel Deronda. | 9. I suppose all phrases Ž Q--&gt; | of mere
compliment have \*-2 their turn to be true. A man is occasionally
grateful when he says “thank you.”—The Mill on the Floss. Io. I would
change with nobody, madam. And if troubles were put up to market, I’d
sooner buy old than new. It's something to have seen the worst.— Felix
Holt. 11. It is a wonderful subduer—this need of love.-The Mill on the
Floss. 12. A diffident man likes the idea of doing something remarkable,
which will create belief in him without any imme- diate display of
brilliancy.—Felix Holt. 13. By being contemptible we set men's minds to
the tune of contempt.— Middlemarch. 14. There's nothing like settling
with ourselves as there's a deal we must do without i' this life. It's
no use looking on life as if it was Treddles’on fair, where folks only
go to see shows and get fair- ings.-Adam Bede. This page contains an
image.  OU’RE mighty fond o' Craig; but, for my part, I
think he's welly like a cock as thinks the sun's rose o' purpose to hear
\* £% £ £% him crow.—Adam Bede. 16. The right word is always a power,
and communicates its definiteness to our action.-Middlemarch. 17.
Writing is a part of my religion, and I can write no word that is not
prompted from within.-Letters. 18. The higher life begins for us, my
daughter, when we renounce our own will to bow before a divine
law.—Romola. 19. Blessed is the man who, having nothing to say, abstains
from giving us wordy evidence of the fact.—Theophrastus Such. 20.
Constancy in mistake is constant folly.—Felix Holt. 21. 'Tis a vile life
that like a garden pool Lies stagnant in the round of personal loves.
-Spanish Gypsy. . . Continue
to next section or go to Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 13 No
page number - F you want to slip into a s round hole, you must 'S make a
ball of yourself. \\ \\{\\ } –The Mill on the Floss. 23. Particular lies
may speak a general truth.- Spanish Gypsy. 24. A mother's love, I often
say, is like a tree that has got all the wood in it, from the very first
it made.-Daniel Teronda. 25. Necessity does the work of cour-
age.-Romola. 26. A woman's lot is made for her by the love she
accepts.—Felix Holt. 27. I’d rether given ten shillin' an’ help a man to
stand on his own legs, nor pay half-a-crown to buy him a parish
crutch.-Janet's Repentance. 28. Breed is stronger than pasture.- Silas
Marner. S: £ . . Continue to
next section or go to Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 14 No page
number £2006mber IFE never seems so clear | and \# as when the heart is
beating faster at the sight of some gen- erous self-risking deed.
-Romola. 30. It's poor eating where the flavor o’ the meat £ i’ the
cruets. There's folks as make bad butter, and trusten to the salt t hide
it.—Adam Bede. . . Continue
to next section or go to Table of Contents &lt;\#toc&gt; Section 15 No
page number \#Dettmber |- - S: HINGS are achieved when £% they are well
begun. The perfect archer calls the deer his own While yet the shaft is
Z: ©2.É' whistling - - -i- -Spanish Gypsy. 2. Energetic natures, strong
for all strenuous deeds, will often rush away from a hopeless sufferer,
as if they were hard-hearted. It is the over-mastering - sense of pain
that drives them.—Adam Tede. 3. Notions and scruples are like spilled
needles, making one afraid of treading, or sitting down, or even
eating.-Middle- march. 4. Human longings are perversely obstinate; and
to the man whose mouth is watering for a peach, it is of no use to offer
the largest vegetable marrow.-Mr. Gilfil's Love Story. 5. I enter into
no plots, but I never forsake my colors.-Romola. 6. Under protracted ill
every living creature will find something that makes a comparative
ease.-Felix Holt. 7. I measure men's dullness by the devices they trust
in for deceiving others. -Romola. . End of
Section 15. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
&lt;\#toc&gt; Section 16  \#Dętember £2-SNS £ '99 RONG
love hungers to bless and not merely to behold blessing.-Daniel
‘Deronda. 9. I thinkhalf those prig- \$ gish maxims about human \\
nature in the lump are no more to be relied on than universal reme-
dies. There are different sorts of human nature.—Felix Holt. . 10. The
man who awakes the wonder- ing tremulous £ of a young girl always thinks
her affectionate.—Adam Bede. II. In marriage, the certainty, “She will
never love me much,” is easier to bear, than the fear, “I shall love her
no more.”—Middlemarch. 12. It is the lot of every man who has to speak
for the satisfaction of the crowd, that he must often speak in virtue of
esterday's faith, hoping it will come ack to-morrow.-Romola. 12. There's
folks 'ud hold a sieve under the pump and expect to carry away the
water.-Adam Bede. 14. Surely, surely the only true knowl- edge of our
fellowman is that which enables us to feel with him.—Janet's Repentance.
.  \#Dětember E=\\dESPAIR no
more leans on others than perfect con- tentment.-Adam Bede. 16.
Certainly the mis- takes that we male and fe- male mortals make when we
have our own way might fairly raise some wonder that we are so fond of
it.—Middlemarch. 17. To have in general but little feel- ing seems to be
the only security against feeling too much on any particular
occasion.-Middlemarch. 18. There's no pleasure i' living if you're to be
corked up for iver, and only dribble your mind out by the sly, like a
leaky barrel.-Adam Bede. 19. Our lives make a moral tradition for our
individual selves, as the life of mankind at large makes a moral
tradition for the race; and to have once acted greatly seems a reason
why we should always be noble.-Romola. 20. In love's spring all good
seems possible.-Spanish Gypsy. 21. It is always chilling, in friendly
intercourse, to say you have no opinion to give.-The Mill on the Floss.
.  \#Dettmber SROM the British
point of & view masculine beauty is regarded very much as it is in the
drapery business: —as good solely for the fancy department-for \*A young
noblemen, artists, poets, and the clergy.-Felix Holt. 23. “O may I join
the choir £ Of those immortal dead who live again In minds made better
by their presence.-Poem. 24. An old friend is not always the erson whom
it is easiest to make a con- idant of.-Middlemarch. 25. Examine your
words well, and you will find that even when you have no motive to be
false, it is a very hard thing to say the exact truth.-Adam Bede. 26.
There are moments when our passions speak and decide for us, and we seem
to stand by and wonder.-Romola. 27. A great idea is an eagle's egg,
craves time for hatching.-Stradivarius. 28. Were another childhood-world
my share, , I would be born a little sister there.—Brother and Sister.
.  \#Dettmber OW is it that the
poets have said so many fine things about our first love, so few about
our later love? Are their first \* poems their best? or are not those
the best which come from their fuller thought, their larger experience,
their deeper-rooted affections?-Adam Bede, 30. There are so many things
wrong and difficult in the world, that no man can be great-he can hardly
keep him- self from wickedness—unless he gives up thinking much about
pleasure or rewards, and gets strength to endure what is hard and
painful.-Romola. 3I. May I reach That purest heaven, be to other souls
The cup of strength in some great agony. Enkindle generous ardor, feed
ure love, So shall I join the choir invisible Whose music is the
gladness of the world.—Poem. . 
