SAYINGS FROM < MIDDLEMARCH.'

MIDDLEMARCH.

George Eliot {in propria persona).
Who that cares much to know the history of man,
and how that mysterious mixture behaves under the
varying experiments of Time, has not dwelt, at least
briefly, on the life of Saint Theresa, has not smiled
with some gentleness at the thought of the little girl
walking forth one morning hand-in-hand with her still
smaller brother, to go and seek martyrdom in the
country of the Moors ? Out they toddled from rugged
Avila, wide-eyed and helpless-looking as two fawns,
but with distinctively human hearts, already beating
to a national idea ; until domestic reality met them in
the shape of uncles, and turned them back from their
great resolve. That child-pilgrimage was a fit begin
ning. Theresa's passionate, ideal nature demanded
an epic life : what were many-volumed romances of
chivalry and the social conquests of a brilliant girl to
her? Her flame quickly burned up that light fuel,
and, fed from within, soared after some illimitable
satisfaction, some object which would never justify
weariness, which would reconcile sel<f-despair with
the rapturous consciousness of life beyond self. She
found her epos in the reform of a religious order.
285

286

George Eliot {in propria persona).

That Spanish woman who lived three hundred years
ago, was certainly not the last of her kind. Many
Theresas have been born who found for themselves
no epic life wherein there was a constant unfolding of
far-resonant a;ction ; perhaps only a life of mistakes,
the offspring of a certain spiritual grandeur ill-matched
with the meanness of opportunity; perhaps a tragic
failure which found no sacred poet and sank unwept
into oblivion. With dim lights and tangled circum
stance they tried to shape their thought and deed in
noble agreement ; but after all, to common eyes their
struggles seemed mere inconsistency and formless
ness ; for these later-born Theresas were helped by no
coherent social faith and order which could perform
the function of knowledge for the ardently willing soul.
Their ardour alternated between a vague ideal and the
common yearning of womanhood ; so that the one was
disapproved as extravagance, and the other condemned
as a lapse.
Some have felt that these blundering lives are
due to the inconvenient indefiniteness with which the
Supreme Power has fashioned the natures of women :
if there were one level of feminine incompetence as
strict as the ability to count three and no more, the
social lot of women might be treated with scientific
certitude. Meanwhile the indefiniteness remains, and
the limits of variation are really much wider than any
one would imagine from the sameness of women's
coiffure and the favourite love-stories in prose and
verse. Here and there a cygnet is reared uneasily
among the ducklings in the brown pond, and never
finds the living stream in fellowship with its own oaryfooted kind. Here and there is born a Saint Theresa,
foundress of nothing, whose loving heart-beats and

George Eliot {in propria persona).

287

sobs after an unattained goodness tremble off and are
dispersed among hindrances, instead of centering in
some long-recognisable deed.

If youth is the season of hope, it is often so only in
the sense that our elders are hopeful about us ; for no
age is so apt as youth to think its emotions, partings,
. and resolves are the last of their kind. Each crisis
seems final, simply because it is new. We are told
that the oldest inhabitants in Peru do not cease to be
agitated by the earthquakes, but they probably see
beyond each shock, and reflect that there are plenty
more to come.
What we call our despair is often only the painful
eagerness of unfed hope.

Pain must enter into its glorified life of memory
before it can turn into compassion.
—0—
We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the
world as an udder to feed our supreme selves.
—0—
Goodness is of a modest nature, easily discouraged,
and when much elbowed in early life by unabashed
vices, is apt to retire into extreme privacy.

A man vows, and yet will not cast away the means
of breaking his vow. Is it that he distinctly means to

288

George Eliot {in propria persona).

break it ? Not at all ; but the desires which tend to
break it are at work in him dimly, and make their way
into his imagination, and relax his muscles in the very
moments when he is telling himself over again the
reasons for his vow.
—o—
We are not afraid of telling over and over again
how a man comes to fall in love with a woman and be
wedded to her, or else be fatally parted from her. Is
it due to excess of poetry or of stupidity that we are
never weary of describing what King James called
a woman's 'makdom and her fairnesse,' never weary
of listening to the twanging of the old Troubadour
strings, and are comparatively uninterested in that
other kind of ' makdom and fairnesse ' which must
be wooed with industrious thought and patient renun
ciation of small desires ? In the story of this passion,
too, the development varies : sometimes it is the
glorious marriage, sometimes frustration and final
parting. And not seldom the catastrophe is wound
up with the other passion, sung by the Troubadours.
For in the multitude of middle-aged men who go
about their vocations in a daily course determined for
them much in the same way as the tie of their cravats,
there is always a good number who once meant to
shape their own deeds and alter the world a little.
The story of their coming to be shapen after the
average and fit to be packed by the gross, is hardly
ever told even in their consciousness ; for perhaps
their ardour for generous unpaid toil cooled as im
perceptibly as the ardour of other youthful loves, till
one day their earlier self walked like a ghost in its old
home and made the new furniture ghastly. Nothing

George Eliot (in propria persona).

289

in the world more subtle than the process of their
gradual change ! In the beginning they inhaled it
unknowingly : you and I may have sent some of our
breath towards infecting them, when we uttered our
conforming falsities or drew our silly conclusions : or
perhaps it came with the vibrations from a woman's
glance.
That pleasureless yielding to the small
solicitations of circumstance, which is a commoner
history of perdition than any single momentous bar
gain.
.— 0—
There is no human being who having both passions
and thoughts does not think in consequence of his
passions—does not find images rising in his mind
which soothe the passion with hope or sting it with
dread.
—0—
We are all of us imaginative in some form or other,
for images are the brood of desire.

When immortal Bunyan makes his picture of the
persecuting passions bringing in their verdict of guilty,
who pities Faithful ? That is a rare and blessed lot
which some greatest men have not attained, to know
ourselves guiltless before a condemning crowd—to be
sure that what we are denounced for is solely the good
in us. The pitiable lot is that of the man who could
not call himself a martyr even though he were to per
suade himself that the men who stoned him were but
ugly passions incarnate—who knows that he is stoned,
T

290

George Eliot {in propria persona).

not for professing the Right, but for not being the
man he professed to be.
—0—
The pain, as well as the public estimate of disgrace,
depends on the amount of previous profession. To
men who only aim at escaping felony, nothing short of
the prisoner's dock is disgrace.

Only those who know the supremacy of the in
tellectual life—the life which has a seed of ennobling
thought and purpose within it—can understand the
grief of one who falls from that serene activity into
the absorbing soul - wasting struggle with worldly
annoyances.
—0—
. That swamp [of debt] which tempts men
towards it with such a pretty covering of flowers and
verdure. It is wonderful how soon a man gets up to
his chin there—in a condition in which, spite of him
self, he is forced to think chiefly of release, though he
had a scheme of the universe in his soul.

We are on a perilous margin when we begin to look
passively at our future selves, and see our own figures
led with dull consent into insipid misdoing and shabby
achievement.
—0—
There are episodes in most men's lives in which
their highest qualities can only cast a deterring shadow
over the objects that fill their inward vision.

George Eliot {in propria persond).

291

We mortals, men and women, devour many a dis
appointment between breakfast and dinner-time ; keep
back the tears and look a little pale about the lips, and
in answer to inquiries say, ' Oh, nothing ! ' Pride
helps us ; and pride is not a bad thing when it only
urges us to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others.
—0—
The right word is always a power, and communi
cates its definiteness to our action.
—0—
Those childlike caresses which are the bent
of every sweet woman, who has begun by showering
kisses on the hard pate of her bald doll, creating a
happy soul within that woodenness from the wealth
of her own love.
—0—
It is in those acts called trivialities that the seeds of
joy are for ever wasted, until men and women look
round with haggard faces at the devastation their own
waste has made, and say, the earth bears no harvest of
sweetness—calling their denial knowledge.
One must be poor to know the luxury of giving !

Solomon's Proverbs, I think, have omitted to say,
1 that as the sore palate findeth grit, so an uneasy con
sciousness heareth innuendoes.

Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may
be passing on us beings of wider speculation ?

292

George Eliot {in propria persona).

I am not sure that the greatest man of his age, if
ever that solitary superlative existed, could escape un
favourable reflections of himself in various small
mirrors ; and even Milton, looking for his portrait in
a spoon, must submit to have the facial angle of a
bumpkin.
One's self-satisfaction is an untaxed kind of property
which it is very unpleasant to find depreciated.

Who can know how much of his most inward life is
made up of the thoughts he believes other men to have
about him, until that fabric of opinion is threatened
with ruin ?
News is often dispersed as thoughtlessly and effec
tively as that pollen which the bees carry off (having
no idea how powdery they are) when they are buzzing
in search of their particular nectar.

Nettle-seed needs no digging.
—0 —
What elegant historian would neglect a striking
opportunity for pointing out that his heroes did not
foresee the history of the world, or even their own
actions?— For example, that Henry of Navarre, when
a Protestant baby, little thought of being a Catholic
monarch ; or that Alfred the Great, when he measured
his laborious nights with burning candles, had no idea
of future gentlemen measuring their idle days with
watches. Here is a^ mine of truth, which, however

George Eliot {in propria persona).

293

vigorously it may be worked is likely to outlast our
coal.
Even Casar's fortune at one time was but a grand
presentiment. We know what a masquerade all
development is, and what effective shapes may be
disguised in helpless embryos.— In fact, the world is
full of hopeful analogies and handsome dubious eggs
called possibilities.
Among all forms of mistake, prophecy is the most
gratuitous.
—0—
A man conscious of enthusiasm for worthy aims is
sustained under petty hostilities by the memory of
great workers who had to fight their way not without
wounds, and who hover in his mind as patron saints,
invisibly helping.
Most of us know little of the great originators until
they have been lifted up among the constellations and
already rule our fates. But that Herschel, for example,
who ' broke the barriers of the heavens '—did he not
once play a provincial church-organ, and give musiclessons to stumbling pianists ? Each of those Shining
Ones had to walk on the earth among neighbours who
perhaps thought much more of his gait and his gar
ments than of anything which was to give him a title
to everlasting fame : each of them had his little local
personal history sprinkled with small temptations and
sordid cares, which made the retarding friction of his
course towards final companionship with the immor
tals.

294

George Eliot (in propria persona).

When young ardour is set brooding over the con
ception of a prompt deed, the deed itself seems to start
forth with independent life, mastering ideal obstacles.
—o—
Ardent souls, ready to construct their coming lives,
are apt to commit themselves to the fulfilment of their
own visions.
Our good depends on the quality and breadth of
our emotion.
—o—
A vigorous error vigorously pursued has kept the
embryos of truth a-breathing : the quest of gold being
at the same time a questioning of substances, the body
of chemistry is preoared for its soul, and Lavoisier is
born.
—o—
People are so ridiculous with their illusions, carry
ing their fool's caps unawares, thinking their own lies
opaque while everybody else's are transparent, making
themselves exceptions to everything, as if when all the
world looked yellow under a lamp they alone were
rosy.
—o—
Men and women make sad mistakes about their own
symptoms, taking their vague uneasy longings, some
times for genius, sometimes for religion, and oftener
still for a mighty love.
—o—
There are many wonderful mixtures in the world
which are all alike called love, and claim the privileges

George Eliot (in propria persona).

295

of a sublime rage which is an apology for everything
(in literature and the drama).
—0—.
An old friend is not always the person whom it is
easiest to make a confidant of.
—0—
One can begin so many things with a new person !
—even begin to be a better man.
—0—
The bias of human nature to be slow in correspon
dence triumphs even over the present quickening in
the general pace of things.
•—0—
.
Rome, the city of visible history, where the
past of a whole hemisphere seems moving in funeral
procession with strange ancestral images and trophies
gathered from afar.
To those who have looked at Rome with the quicken
ing power of a knowledge which breathes a growing
soul into all historic shapes, and traces out the sup
pressed transitions which unite all contrasts, Rome
may still be the spiritual centre and interpreter of the
world. But let them conceive one more historical
contrast : the gigantic broken revelations of that
Imperial and Papal city thrust abruptly on the notions
of a girl who had been brought up in English and
Swiss Puritanism, fed on meagre Protestant histories
and on art chiefly of the hand-screen sort ; a girl whose
ardent nature turned all her small allowance of know

296

George Eliot {in propria persona).

ledge into principles, fusing her actions into their
mould, and whose quick emotions gave the most
abstract things the quality of a pleasure or a pain ; a
girl who had lately become a wife, and from the
enthusiastic acceptance of untried duty found herself
plunged in tumultuous preoccupation with her personal
lot. The weight of unintelligible Rome might lie
easily on bright nymphs to whom it formed a back
ground for the brilliant picnic of Anglo-foreign society;
but Dorothea had no such defence against deep im
pressions. Ruins and basilicas, palaces and colossi,
set in the midst of a sordid present, where all that was
living and warm-blooded seemed sunk in the deep
degeneracy of a superstition divorced from reverence;
the dimmer but yet eager Titanic life gazing and
struggling on walls and ceilings ; the long vistas of
white forms whose marble eyes seemed to hold the
monotonous light of an alien world : all this vast
wreck of ambitious ideals, sensuous and spiritual,
mixed confusedly with the signs of breathing forgetfulness and degradation, at first jarred her as with an
electric shock, and then urged themselves on her with
that ache belonging to a glut of confused ideas which
check the flow of emotion. Forms both pale and
glowing took possession of her young sense, and fixed
themselves in her memory even when she was not
thinking of them, preparing strange associations which
remained through her after-years. Our moods are
apt to bring with them images which succeed each
other like the magic-lantern pictures of a doze ; and
in certain states of dull forlornness Dorothea all her
life continued to see the vastness of St Peter's, the
huge bronze canopy, the excited intention in the atti
tudes and garments of the prophets and evangelists in

George Eliot {in propria persona).

297

the mosaics above, and the red drapery which was
being hung for Christmas spreading itself everywhere
like a disease of the retina.

There never was a true story which could not be
told in parables where you might put a monkey for a
margrave, and vice versa.
—0—
We are all humiliated by the sudden discovery of
a fact which has existed very comfortably and perhaps
been staring at us in private while we have been
making up our world entirely without it.
—0—
The Rubicon, we know, was a very insignificant
stream to look at ; its significance lay entirely in cer
tain invisible conditions.
—0—
Caleb Garth often shook his head in meditation on
the value, the indispensable might of that myriadheaded, myriad-handed labour by which the social
body is fed, clothed, and housed. It had laid hold
of his imagination in boyhood. The echoes of the
great hammer where roof or keel were a-making, the
signal-shouts of the workmen, the roar of the furnace,
the thunder and plash of the engine, were a sublime
music to him ; the felling and lading of timber, and
the huge trunk vibrating star-like in the distance along
the highway, the crane at work on the wharf, the piledup produce in warehouses, the precision and variety of
muscular effort wherever exact work had to be turned
out,—all these sights of his youth had acted on him as

298

George Eliot {in propria persona).

poetry without the aid of the poets, had made a philo
sophy for him without the aid of philosophers, a reli
gion without the aid of theology.
Unwonted circumstances may make us all rather
unlike ourselves : there are conditions under which
the most majestic person is obliged to sneeze, and our
emotions are liable to be acted on in the same incon
gruous manner.
—0—
Would it not be rash to conclude that there was no
passion behind those sonnets to Delia which strike us
as the thin music of a mandolin ?
.—0—
A man's mind—what there is of it—has always the
advantage of being masculine,—as the smallest birchtree is ol a higher kind than the most soaring palm,—
and even his ignorance is of a sounder quality.
The country gentry of old time lived in a rarefied
social air: dotted apart on their stations up the moun
tain they looked down with imperfect discrimination
on the belts of thicker life below.
—0—
Any one watching keenly the stealthy convergence
of human lots, sees a slow preparation of effects from
one life on another, which tells like a calculated irony
on the indifference or the frozen stare with which we
look at our unintroduced neighbour. Destiny stands
by sarcastic with our dramatis persona folded in her
hand.

George Eliot {in propria persona).

299

Scenes which make vital changes in our neighbours'
lot are but the background of our own, yet, like a
particular aspect of the fields and trees, they become
associated for us with the epochs of our own history,
and make a part of that unity which lies in the selec
tion of our keenest consciousness.
—0—
Pride only helps us to be generous ; it never makes
us so, any more than vanity will make us witty.
—0—
In Middlemarch a wife could not long remain ignor
ant that the town held a bad opinion of her husband.
No feminine intimate might carry her friendship so
far as to make a plain statement to the wife of the
unpleasant fact known or believed about her husband ;
but when a woman with her thoughts much at leisure
got them suddenly employed on something grievously
disadvantageous to her neighbours, various moral im
pulses were called into play which tended to stimulate
utterance. Candour was one. To be candid, in
Middlemarch phraseology, meant, to use an early
opportunity of letting your friends know that you did
not take a cheerful view of their capacity, their con
duct, or their position ; and a robust candour never
waited to be asked for its opinion. Then, again, there
was the love of truth—a wide phrase, but meaning in
this relation, a lively objection to seeing a wife look
happier than her husband's character warranted, or
manifest too much satisfaction in her lot : the poor
thing should have some hint given her that if she
knew the truth she would have less complacency in
her bonnet, and in light dishes for a supper-party.

300

George Eliot (in propria persona).

Stronger than all, there was the regard for a friend's
moral improvement, sometimes called her soul, which
was likely to be benefited by remarks tending to gloom,
uttered with the accompaniment of pensive staring at
the furniture and a manner implying that the speaker
would not tell what was on her mind, from regard to
the feelings of her hearer. On the whole, one might
say that an ardent charity was at work setting the
virtuous mind to make a neighbour unhappy for her
good.
A hidden soul seemed to be flowing forth from
Rosamond's fingers [as she played] ; and so indeed it
was, since souls live on in perpetual echoes, and to all
fine expression there goes somewhere an originating
activity, if it be only that of an interpreter.
'— °~
When the animals entered the Ark in pairs, one
may imagine that allied species made much private
remark on each other, and were tempted to think that
so many forms feeding on the same store of fodder
were eminently superfluous, as tending to diminish
the rations. (I fear the part played by the vultures on
that occasion would be too painful for art to represent,
those birds being disadvantageously naked about the
gullet, and apparently without rites and ceremonies.)
—o—
Looking at the mother [Mrs Garth], you might hope
that the daughter would become like her, which is a
prospective .advantage equal to a dowry—the mother
too often standing behind the daughter like a malig
nant prophecy—' Such as I am, she will shortly be.'

George Eliot {in propria persona).

301

Certainly, the exemplary Mrs Garth had her droll
aspects, but her character sustained her oddities, as a
very fine wine sustains a flavour of skin.

In alf failures, the beginning is certainly the half of
the whole.
—0—
Young love-making—that gossamer web ! Even
the points it clings to—the things whence its subtle
interlacings are swung — are scarcely perceptible :
momentary touches of finger-tips, meetings of rays
from blue and dark orbs, unfinished phrases, lightest
changes of cheek and lip, faintest tremors. The web
itself is made of spontaneous beliefs and indefinable
joys, yearnings of one life towards another, visions of
completeness, indefinite trust.
Signs are small measurable things, but interpreta
tions are illimitable, and in girls of sweet ardent nature,
every sign is apt to conjure up wonder, hope, belief,
vast as a sky, and coloured by a diffused thimbleful
of matter in the shape of knowledge. They are not
always too grossly deceived ; for SinbaU himself may
have fallen by good-luck on a true description, and
wrong reasoning sometimes lands poor mortals in
right conclusions : starting a long way off the true
point, and proceeding by loops and zig-zags, we now
and then arrive just where we ought to be.

What believer sees a disturbing omission or in
felicity ? The text, whether of prophet or of poet,

302

George Eliot {in propria persona).

expands for whatever we can put into it, and even his
bad grammar is sublime.
—o—
Dorothea filled up all blanks [in Mr Casaubon] with
unmanifested perfections, interpreting him as she in
terpreted the works of Providence, and accounting for
seeming discords by her own deafness to the higher
harmonies. And there are many blanks left in the
weeks of courtship, which a loving faith fills with
happy assurance.
—o—
Has any one ever pinched into its pilulous smallness the cobweb of pre-matrimonial acquaintance
ship ?
—o—
In courtship everything is regarded as provisional
and preliminary, and the smallest sample of virtue
or accomplishment is taken to guarantee delightful
stores which the broad leisure of marriage will reveal.
But the door-sill of marriage once crossed, expecta
tion is concentrated on the present. Having once
embarked on your marital voyage, it is impossible
not to be aware that you make no way and that the
sea is not within sight— that, in fact, you are exploring
an enclosed basin.
You cannot find the pearly dawn at noonday. The
fact is unalterable, that a fellow-mortal with whose
nature you are acquainted solely through the brief
entrances and exits of a few imaginative weeks called
courtship, may, when seen in the continuity of married
companionship, be disclosed as something better or

George Eliot {in propria persona).

303

worse than what you have preconceived, but will
certainly not appear altogether the same. And it
would be astonishing to find how soon the change
is felt if we had no kindred changes to compare with
it. To share lodgings with a brilliant dinner-com
panion, or to see your favourite politician in the
Ministry, may bring about changes quite as rapid :
in these cases too we begin by knowing little and
believing much, and we sometimes end by inverting
the quantities.
—o~
The early months of marriage often are times of
critical tumult—whether that of a shrimp-pool or of
deeper waters—which afterwards subsides into cheer
ful peace.
That element of tragedy which lies in the very fact
of frequency, has not yet wrought itself into the coarse
emotion of mankind ; and perhaps our frames could
hardly bear much of it. If we had a.keen vision and
feeling of all ordinary human life, it would be like
hearing the grass grow and the squirrel's heart beat,
and we should die of that roar which lies on the other
side of silence. As it is, the quickest of us walk
about well wadded with stupidity.

To have in general but little feeling, seems to be
the only security against feeling too much on any par
ticular occasion.
Shallow natures dream of an easy sway over the
emotions of others, trusting implicitly in their own

304

George Eliot {in propria persona).

petty magic to turn the deepest streams, and confi
dent, by pretty gestures and remarks, of making the
thing that is not as though it were.
—0—
In poor Rosamond's mind there was not room
enough for luxuries to look small in.
—0—
The shallowness of a waternixie's soul may have a
charm until she becomes didactic.
—0—
Who shall tell what may be the effect of writing ?
If it happens to have been cut in stone, though it lie
face downmost for ages on a forsaken beach, or ' rest
quietly under the drums and tramplings of many con
quests,' it may end by letting us into the secret of
usurpations and other scandals gossiped about long
empires ago : — this world being apparently a huge
whispering-gallery. Such conditions are often min
utely represented in our petty lifetimes.
—0—
Most of us who turn to any subject with love re
member some morning or evening hour when we got
on a high stool to reach down an untried volume,
or sat with parted lips listening to a new talker, or
for very lack of books began to listen to the voices
within, as the first traceable beginning of our love.
—0—
I think that the rare Englishmen who have this
gesture [of shrugging the shoulders] are never of the

George Eliot {in propria persona).

305

heavy type—for fear of any lumbering instance to the
contrary, I will say, hardly ever : they have usually
a fine temperament and much tolerance towards the
smaller errors of men (themselves inclusive).
—0—
That beneficent harness of routine which
enables silly men to live respectably and unhappy
men to live calmly.
There is no general doctrine which is not capable
of eating out our morality if unchecked by the deepseated habit of direct fellow-feeling with individual
fellow-men.
Dr Lydgate cared not only for " cases," but for John
and Elizabeth, especially Elizabeth.
.— 0—
While we are talking and meditating about the
earth's orbit and the solar system, what we feel and
adjust our movements to is the stable earth and the
changing day. .
—0—
It is a terrible moment in young lives when the
closeness of love's bond has turned to a power of
galling.
In marriage, the certainty, ' She will never love me
much,' is easier to bear than the fear, ' I shall love
her no more.'
U

306

George Eliot {in propria persona).

Lydgate's endurance was mingled with a self-dis
content which, if we know how to be candid, we shall
confess to make more than half our bitterness under
grievances, wife or husband included. It always re
mains true that if we had been greater, circumstance
would have been less strong against us.

If Mr Casaubon, speaking for himself, has rather a
chilling rhetoric, it is not therefore certain that there
is no good work or fine feeling in him. Did not an
immortal physicist and interpreter of hieroglyphs
write detestable verses? Has the theory of the solar
system been advanced by graceful manners and con
versational tact ? Suppose we turn from outside esti
mates of a man, to wonder, with keener interest, what
is the report of his own consciousness about his doings
or capacity : with what hindrances he is carrying on
his daily labours ; what fading of hopes, or what
deeper fixity of self-delusion the years are marking off
within him ; and with what spirit he wrestles against
universal pressure, which will one day be too heavy
for him, and bring his heart to its final pause. Doubt
less his lot is important in his own eyes ; and the chief
reason that we think he asks too large a place in our
consideration must be our want of room for him, since
we refer him'to the Divine regard with perfect confi
dence ; nay, it is even held sublime for our neighbour
to expect the utmost there, however little he may have
got from us.
Are there many situations more sublimely tragic
than the struggle of the soul with the demand to
renounce a work which has been all the significance

George Eliot {in propria persona).

307

of its life—a significance which is to vanish as the
waters which come and go where no man has need of
them ?
—0—
Here was a man who now for the first time found
himself looking into the eyes of death—who was pass
ing through one of those rare moments of experience
when we feel the truth of a commonplace, which is as
different from what we call knowing it, as the vision
of waters upon the earth is different from the delirious
vision of the water which cannot be had to cool the
burning tongue. When the commonplace ' We must
all die' transforms itself suddenly into the acute
consciousness 'I must die — and soon,' then death
grapples us, and his fingers are cruel ; afterwards, he
may come to fold us in his arms as our mother did,
and our last moment of dim earthly discerning may
be like the first. To Mr Casaubon now, it was as if
he suddenly found himself on the dark river-brink,
and heard the plash of the on-coming oar, not dis
cerning the forms, but expecting the summons.
—0—
There are some kinds of authorship in which by far
the largest result is the uneasy susceptibility accumu
lated in the consciousness of the author—one knows
of the river by a few streaks amid a long-gathered
deposit of uncomfortable mud.
—0—
Will not a tiny speck very close to our vision blot
out the glory of the world, and leave only a margin
by which we see the blot? I know no speck so
troublesome as self.

308

George Eliot {in propria persona).

What loneliness is more lonely than distrust ?
—o—
There is a sort of jealousy which needs very little
fire : it is hardly a passion, but a blight bred in the
cloudy, damp despondency of uneasy egoism.
—o—
Very little achievement is required in order to pity
another man's shortcomings.

Mortals are easily tempted to pinch the life out of
their neighbour's buzzing glory, and think that such
killing is no murder.
—o—
A man may, from various motives, decline to give
his company ; but perhaps not even a sage would be
gratified that nobody missed him.
—o—
A woman dictates before marriage in order that she
may have an appetite for submission afterwards.
—o—
Mr Bulstrode had a deferential bending attitude in
listening, and an apparently fixed attentiveness in his
eyes, which made those persons who thought them
selves worth hearing infer that he was seeking the
utmost improvement from their discourse. Others,
who expected to make no great figure, disliked this
kind of moral lantern turned on them. If you are not
proud of your cellar, there is no thrill of satisfaction
in seeing your guest hold up his wine-glass to the

George Eliot (in propria persona).

309

light and look judicial. Such joys are reserved for
conscious merit.
Loud men called Bulstrode's subdued tone an under
tone, and sometimes implied that it was inconsistent
with openness; though there seems to be no reason
why a loud man should not be given to concealment
of anything except his own voice, unless it can be
shown that Holy Writ has placed the seat of candour
in the lungs.
—0—
Let the wise be warned against too great readiness
of explanation : it multiplies the sources of mistake,
lengthening the sum for reckoners sure to go wrong.
—0—
A full-fed fountain will be generous with its waters
even in the rain, when they are worse than useless ;
and a fine fount of admonition is apt to be equally
irrepressible.
—0—
Some one highly susceptible to the contemplation
of a fine act has said, that it produces a sort of re
generating shudder through the frame, and makes one
feel ready to begin a new life.
—0—
It is given to us sometimes, even in our everyday
life, to witness the saving influence of a noble nature,
the divine efficacy of rescue that may lie in a selfsubduing act of fellowship.
There are natures in which, if they love us, we are
conscious of having a sort of baptism and consecra

310

George Eliot {in propria persona).

tion : they bind us over to rectitude and purity by
their pure belief about us ; and our sins become that
worst kind of sacrilege which tears down the invisible
altar of trust. ' If you are not good, none is good '
—those little words may give a terrific meaning to
responsibility, may hold a vitriolic intensity for re
morse.
' The theatre of all my actions is fallen,' said an
antique personage when his chief friend was dead ;
and they are fortunate who get a theatre where the
audience demands their best.
—o—
The presence of a noble nature, generous in its
wishes, ardent in its charity, changes the lights for
us : we begin to see things again in their larger,
quieter masses, and to believe that we too can be seen
and judged in the wholeness of our character.
—o—
A great historian, as he insisted on calling himself,
who had the happiness to be dead a hundred and
twenty years ago, and so to take his place among the
colossi whose huge legs our living pettiness is ob
served to walk under, glories in his copious remarks
and digressions as the least imitable part of his
work, and especially in those initial chapters to the
successive books of his history, where he seems to
bring his arm-chair to the proscenium, and chat with
us in all the lusty ease of his fine English. But
Fielding lived when the days were longer (for time,
like money, is measured by our needs), when summer
afternoons were spacious, and the clock ticked slowly

George Eliot [in propria persona).

311

in the winter evenings. We belated historians must
not linger after his example ; and if we did so, it is
probable that our chat would be thin and eager, as if
delivered from a camp-stool in a parrot-house.
—0—
There is hardly any contact more depressing to a
young ardent creature than that of a mind in which
years full of knowledge seem to have issued in a blank
absence of interest or sympathy.

To know intense joy without a strong bodily frame,
one must have an enthusiastic soul. Mr Casaubon
had never had a strong bodily frame, and his soul
was sensitive without being enthusiastic : it was too
languid to thrill out of self-consciousness into passion
ate delight ; it went on fluttering in the swampy
ground where it was hatched, thinking of its wings
and never flying. His experience was of that pitiable
kind which shrinks from pity, and fears most of all
that it should be known : it was that proud narrow
sensitiveness which has not mass enough to spare for
transformation into sympathy, and quivers, thread-like,
in small currents of self-preoccupation, or, at best, of
egoistic scrupulosity.
For my part, I am very sorry for him. It is an uneasy
lot at best, to be what we call highly taught, and yet
not to enjoy : to be present at this great spectacle of
life, and never to be liberated from a small hungry
shivering self—never to be fully possessed by the
glory we behold, never to have our consciousness rap
turously transformed into the vividness of a thought,

312

George Eliot {in propria persona).

the ardour of a passion, the energy of an action, but
always to be scholarly and uninspired, ambitious and
timid, scrupulous and dim-sighted. Becoming a dean
or even a bishop would make little difference, I fear,
to Mr Casaubon's uneasiness. Doubtless some ancient
Greek has observed that behind the big mask and the
speaking-trumpet there must always be our poor little
eyes peeping as usual, and our timorous lips more or
less under anxious control.

I suppose no doctor ever came newly to a place
without making cures that surprised somebody—
cures which may be called fortune's testimonials, and
deserve as much credit as the written or printed kind.

It is as useless to fight against the interpretations
of ignorance as to whip the fog.

That sort of reputation which precedes per
formance,—often the larger part of a man's fame.

It is wonderful how much uglier things will look
when we only suspect that we are blamed for them.
Even our own persons in the glass are apt to change
their aspect for us after we have heard some frank
remark on their less admirable points ; and on the
other hand, it is astonishing how pleasantly con
science takes our encroachments on those who never
complain or have nobody to complain for them.

George Eliot (in propria persona).

313

The most glutinously indefinite minds enclose some
hard grains of habit; and a man has been seen lax
about all his own interests except the retention of his
snuff-box, concerning which he was watchful, sus
picious, and greedy of clutch.

A kind Providence furnishes the limpest personality
with a little gum or starch in the form of tradition.

Our passions do not live apart in locked chambers,
but, dressed in their small wardrobe of notions, bring
their provisions to a common table and mess together,
feeding out of the common store according to their
appetite.
—0—
The troublesome ones in a family are usually either
the wits or the idiots.
—0—
The wit of a family is usually best received among
strangers.
We get the fonder of our houses if they have a phy
siognomy of their own, as our friends have.
— o—
In warming himself at French social theories Lydgate had brought away no smell of scorching. We
may handle even extreme opinions with impunity while
our furniture, our dinner-giving, and preference for
armorial bearings in our own case, link us indissolubly
with the established order.

314

George Eliot {in propria persona).

Lydgate relied much on the psychological difference
between what for the sake of variety I will call goose
and gander : especially on the innate submissiveness of
the goose as beautifuliy corresponding to the strength
of the gander.
—0—.
There are answers which, in turning away wrath,
only send it to the other end of the room.

When gratitude has become a matter of reasoning
there are many ways of escaping from its bonds.
—0—
There is a forsaking which still sits at the same
• board and lies on the same couch with the forsaken
soul, withering it the more by unloving proximity.

The rural opinion about the new young ladies, even
among the cottagers, was generally in favour of Celia,
as being so amiable and innocent-looking, while Miss
Brooke's large eyes seemed, like her religion, too un
usual and striking. Poor Dorothea ! compared with
her, the innocent-looking Celia was knowing and
worldly-wise ; so much subtler is a human .mind than
the outside tissues which make a sort of blazonry or
clock-face for it.
When Mrs Casaubon was announced Will started up
as from an electric shock, and felt a tingling at his
finger-ends. Any one observing him would have seen
a change in his complexion, in the adjustment of his
facial muscles, in the vividness of his glance, which

George Eliot {in propria persona).

315

might have made them imagine that every molecule in
his body had passed the message of a magic touch.
And so it had. For effective magic is transcendent
nature ; and who shall measure the subtlety of those
touches which convey the quality of soul as well as
body, and make a man's passion for one woman differ
from his passion for another as joy in the morning
light over valley and river and white mountain-top
differs from joy among Chinese lanterns and glass
pannels ?
Notions and scruples are like spilt needles, making
one afraid of treading, or sitting down, or even eating.
—0—
It is only what we are vividly conscious of that we
can vividly imagine to be seen by Omniscience.
An eminent philosopher among my friends, who can
dignify even your ugly furniture by lifting it into the
serene light of science, has shown me this pregnant
little fact. Your pier-glass or extensive surface of
polished steel made to be rubbed by a housemaid, will
be minutely and multitudinously scratched in all direc
tions ; but place now against it a lighted candle as a
centre of illumination, and lo ! the scratches will seem
to arrange themselves in a fine series of concentric
circles round that little sun. It is demonstrable that
the scratches are going everywhere impartially, and it
is only your candle which produces the flattering illu
sion of a concentric arrangement, its light falling with
an exclusive optical selection. These things are a par
able. The scratches are events, and the candle is the

316

George Eliot [in propria persona).

egoism of any person now absent—of Miss Vincy, for
example.
The egoism which enters into our theories does not
affect their sincerity ; rather, the more our egoism is
satisfied, the more robust is our belief.
If a princess in the days of enchantment had seen a
four-footed creature from among those which live in
herds come to her once and again with a human gaze
which rested upon her with choice and beseeching,
what would she think of in her journeyings, what
would she look for when the herds passed her ? Surely
for the gaze which had found her, and which she would
know again. Life would be no better than candle
light tinsel and daylight rubbish if our spirits were
not touched by what has been, to issues of longing and
constancy.
—o—
Does any one suppose that private prayer is neces
sarily candid—necessarily goes to the roots of action ?
Private prayer is inaudible speech, and speech is repre
sentative : who can represent himself just as he is, even
in his own reflections ?
—0—
The human mind has at no period accepted a moral
chaos.
—o—
Scepticism, as we know, can never be thoroughly
applied, else life would come to a standstill : some
thing we must believe in and do, and whatever that
something may be called, it is virtually our own judg
ment, even when it seems like the most slavish reliance
on another.

George Eliot {in propria persona).

317

Rosamond blushed and looked at her lover as the
garden flowers look at us when we walk forth happily
among them in the transcendent evening light : is
there not a soul beyond utterance, half-nymph, halfchild, in those delicate petals which glow and breathe
about the centres of deep colour ?

The gladness in Mr Farebrother's face was of that
active kind which seems to have energy enough not
only to flash outwardly, but to light up busy vision
within : one seemed to see thoughts as well as delight
in his glances.
—0—.
Religion can only change when the emotions which
fill it are changed ; and the religion of personal fear
remains nearly at the level of the savage.
—0—
The terror of being judged sharpens the memory :
it sends an inevitable glare over that long-unvisited
past which has been habitually recalled only in general
phrases. Even without memory, the life is bound into
one by a zone of dependence in growth and decay ;
but intense memory forces a man to own his blame
worthy past.
The memory has as many moods as the temper, and
shifts its scenery like a diorama.
The energy that would animate a crime is not more
than is wanted to inspire a resolved submission, when
the noble habit of the soul reasserts itself.

318

George Eliot (in propria persona).

When Fred Vincy was riding home on winter even
ings he had a pleasant vision beforehand of the bright
hearth in the wainscoted parlour, and was sorry for
other men who could not have Mary for their wife ;
especially for Mr Farebrother. ' He was ten times
worthier of you than I was,' Fred could now say to
her, magnanimously. ' To be sure he was,' Mary
answered ; ' and for that reason he could do better
without me. But you— I shudder to think what you
would have been—a curate in debt for horse-hire and
cambric pocket-handkerchiefs ! '
—o—
Ben and Letty Garth, who were uncle and aunt be
fore they were well in their teens, disputed much as to
whether nephews or nieces were more desirable ; Ben
contending that it was clear girls were good for less
than boys, else they would not be always in petticoats,
which showed how little they were meant for ; where
upon Letty, who argued much from books, got angry
in replying that God made coats of skins for both Adam
and Eve alike —also it occurred to her that in the
East the men too wore petticoats. But this latter argu
ment, obscuring the majesty of the former, was one too
many, for Ben answered contemptuously, ' The more
spooneys they ! ' and immediately appealed to his
mother whether boys were not better than girls. Mrs
Garth pronounced that both were alike naughty, but
that boys were undoubtedly stronger, could run faster,
and throw with more precision to a greater distance.
With this oracular sentence Ben was well satisfied,
not minding the naughtiness ; but Letty took it ill,
her feeling of superiority being stronger than her
muscles.

George Eliot (in propria persona).

319

Every limit is a beginning as well as an ending.
Who can quit young lives after being long in company
with them, and not desire to know what befell them in
their after-years ? For the fragment of a life, however
typical, is not the sample of an even web : promises
may not be kept, and an ardent outset may be followed
by declension ; latent powers may find their longwaited opportunity ; a past error may urge a grand
retrieval.
Marriage, which has been the bourne of so many
narratives, is still a great beginning, as it was to Adam
and Eve, who kept their honeymoon in Eden, but had
their first little one among the thorns and thistles of the
wilderness. It is still the beginning of the home apic—
the gradual conquest or irremediable loss of that com
plete union which makes the advancing years a climax,
and age the harvest of sweet memories in common.
Some set out, like Crusaders of old, with a glorious
equipment of hope and enthusiasm, and get broken by
the way, wanting patience with each other and the
world.
Sir James never ceased to regard Dorothea's second
marriage as a mistake ; and indeed this remained the
tradition concerning it in Middlemarch, where she
was spoken of to a younger generation as a fine girl
who married a sickly clergyman, old enough to be her
father, and in little more than a year after his death
gave up her estate to marry his cousin—young enough
to have been his son, with no property, and not well
born. Those who had not seen anything of Dorothea
usually observed that she could not have been ' a nice
woman,' else she would not have married either the
one or the other.

320

George Eliot {in propria persona).

Certainly those determining acts of her life were
not ideally beautiful. They were the mixed result of
young and noble impulse struggling under prosaic
conditions. Among the many remarks passed on her
mistakes, it was never said in the neighbourhood of
Middlemarch that such mistakes could not have hap
pened if the society into which she was born had not
smiled on propositions of marriage from a sickly man
to a girl less than half his own age—on modes of edu
cation which make a woman's knowledge another name
for motley ignorance—on rules of conduct which are
in flat contradiction with its own loudly asserted be
liefs. While this is the social air in which mortals
begin to breathe, there will be collisions such as those
in Dorothea's life, where great feelings will take the
aspect of error and great faith the aspect of illusion.
For there is no creature whose inward being is so
strong that it is not greatly determined by what lies
outside it. A new Theresa will hardly have the oppor
tunity of reforming a conventual life, any more than a
new Antigone will spend her heroic piety in daring all
for the sake of a brother's burial : the medium in which
their ardent deeds took shape is for ever gone. But
we insignificant people with our daily words and acts
are preparing the lives of many Dorotheas, some of
which may present a far sadder sacrifice than that of
the Dorothea whose story we know.
Her finely-touched spirit had still its fine issues,
though they were not widely visible. Her full nature,
like that river of which Alexander broke the strength,
spent itself in channels which had no great name on
the earth. But the effect of her being on those around
her was incalculably diffusive : for the growing good
of the world is partly dependent on unhistoric acts ;

Mottoes.

321

and that things are not so ill with you and me as they
might have been, is half owing to the number who lived
faithfully a hidden life, and rest in unvisited tombs.
' Let the high Muse chant loves Olympian :
We are but mortals, and must sing of man.'

Was never true love loved in vain,
For truest love is highest gain.
No art can make it : it must spring
Where elements are fostering.
So in heaven's spot and hour
Springs the little native flower,
Downward root and upward eye,
Shapen by the earth and sky.

Full souls are double mirrors, making still
An endless vista of fair things before
Repeating things behind.
' 1st Cent.—All times are good to seek your wedded
home
Bringing a mutual delight.
id Gent.—
Why, true.
The calendar hath not an evil day
For souls made one by love, and even death
Were sweetness, if it came like rolling
waves
While they two clasped each other, and
foresaw
No life apart.'
X

322

Mottoes.
I would not creep along the coast, but steer
Out in mid-sea, by guidance of the stars.

' The clerkly person smiled and said,
Promise was a pretty maid,
But being poor she died unwed.'

' Oh, sir, the loftiest hopes on earth
Draw lots with meaner hopes : heroic breasts,
Breathing bad air, run risk of pestilence ;
Or, lacking lime-juice when they cross the Line,
May languish with the scurvy.'

Our deeds still travel with us from afar,
And what we have been makes us what we are.
—o—
' 1st Gent.— Our deeds are fetters thatweforgeourselves.
2d Gent.—-Ay, truly : but I think it is the world
That brings the iron.'

1st Gent.—How class your man ?—as better than the
most,
Or, seeming better, worse beneath that cloak ?
As saint or knave, pilgrim or hypocrite ?
2d Gent.—Nay, tell me how you class your wealth of
books,
The drifted relics of all time. As well

Mottoes.

323

Sort them at once by size and livery :
Vellum, tall copies, and the common calf
Will hardly cover more diversity
Than all your labels cunningly devised
To class your unread authors.

Wise in his daily work was he :
To fruits of diligence,
And not to faiths or polity,
He plied his utmost sense.
These perfect in their little parts,
Whose work is all their prize—
Without them how could laws, or arts,
Or towered cities rise ?
1st Gent.—An ancient land in ancient oracles
Is called 'law-thirsty:' all the struggle there
Was after order and a perfect rule.
Pray, where lie such lands now ?
2d Gent.—Why, where they lay of old—
In human souls.

It is but a shallow haste which concludeth insincerity
from what outsiders call inconsistency—putting a dead
mechanism of ' ifs ' and ' therefores ' for the living
myriad of hidden suckers whereby the belief and the
conduct are wrought into mutual sustainment.

' Follows here the strict receipt
For that sauce to dainty meat,

324

Mottoes.

Named Idleness, which many eat
By preference, and call it sweet :
First watchfor morsels, like a hound,
• Mix well with buffets, stir them round,
With good thick oil offlatteries.
Andfroth with mean selflauding lies.
Serve warm : the vessels you must choose
To keep it in are dead men's shoes.'
—0—
' Black eyes you have left, you say,
Blue eyes fail to draw you ;
Yet you seem more rapt to-day,
•
Than of old we saw you.
Oh I track the fairest fair
Through new haunts of pleasure ;
Footprints here and echoes there
Guide me to my treasure :
Lo ! she turns—immortal youth
Wrought to mortal stature,
Fresh as starlight's aged truth—
Many-named Nature ! '
—0—
How will you know the pitch of that great bell
Too large for you to stir ? Let but a flute
Play 'neath the fine-mixed metal : listen close
Till the right note flows forth, a silvery rill :
Then shall the huge bell tremble—then the mass
With myriad waves concurrent shall respond
In low soft unison.
—o—
Pity the laden one ; this wandering woe
May visit you and me.

Mr Brooke.

325

Sir Humphry Davy? Well, now, Sir Humphry
Davy : I dined with him years ago at Cartwright's, and
Wordsworth was there too—the poet Wordsworth, you
know. Now there was something singular. I was at
Cambridge when Wordsworth was there, and I never
met him—and I dined with him twenty years after
wards at Cartwright's. There's an oddity in things
now. But Davy was there : he was a poet too. Or,
as I may say, Wordsworth was poet one, and Davy
was poet two. That was true in every sense, you
know.
{To Mr Casaubon)—Get Dorothea to play back
gammon with you in the evenings. And shuttlecock,
now—I don't know a finer game than shuttlecock for
the daytime. I remember it all the fashion. To be
sure, your eyes might not stand that, Casaubon. But
you must unbend, you know. Why, you might take
to some light study : conchology, now : I always think
that must be a light study. Or get Dorothea to read
you light things, Smollett — ' Roderick Random,'
' Humphrey Clinker :' they are a little broad, but she
may read anything now she's married, you know.
I remember they made me laugh uncommonly—
there's a droll bit about a postilion's breeches. We
have no such humour now. I have gone through
all these things, but they might be rather new to
you.
There is a lightness about the feminine mind—a
touch and go—music, the fine arts, that kind of thing
—they should study those up to a certain point, women
should ; but in a light way, you know. A woman

326

Mr Brooke.

should be able to sit down and play you or sing you a
good old English tune. That is what I like ; though I
have heard most things—been at the opera in Vienna :
Gluck, Mozart, everything of that sort. But I'm a con
servative in music—it's not like ideas, you know. I
stick to the good old tunes.

Severity is all very well, but it's a great deal easier
when you've got somebody to do it for you.
—o—
Sir James Chettam.—I am reading the Agricul
tural Chemistry, because I am going to take one of
the farms into my own hands, and see if something
cannot be done in setting a good pattern of farming
among my tenants. Do you approve of that, Miss
Brooke ?
Mr Brooke.—A great mistake, Chettam, going into
electrifying your land and that kind of thing, and mak
ing a parlour of your cow-house. It won't do. I went
into science a great deal myself at one time ; but I saw
it would not do. It leads to everything ; you can let
nothing alone. No, no—see that your tenants don't
sell their straw, and that kind of thing ; and give them
draining-tiles, you know. But your fancy-farming
will not do—the most expensive sort of whistle you
can buy : you may as well keep a pack of hounds.
Dorothea.—Surely it is better to spend money in
finding out how men can make the most of the land
which supports them all, than in keeping dogs and
horses only to gallop over it. It is not a sin to make
yourself poor in performing experiments for the good
of all.

Mr Brooke.

327

Mr Brooke.—Young ladies don't understand poli
tical economy, you know. I remember when we were
all reading Adam Smith. There is a book, now. I
took in all the new ideas at one time—human perfecti
bility, now. But some say, history moves in circles ;
and that may be very well argued ; I have argued it
myself. The fact is, human reason may carry you a
little too far—over the hedge, in fact. It carried me a
good way at one time ; but I saw it would not do. I
pulled up ; I pulled up in time. But not too hard. I
have always been in favour of a little theory : we must
have Thought ; else we shall be landed back in the
dark ages.
Mr Brooke.—Burke, now:—when I think of Burke,
I can't help wishing somebody had a pocket-borough
to give you, Ladislaw. You'd never get elected, you
know. And we shall always want talent in the house:
reform as we will, we shall always want talent.
Ladislaw.—Pocket-boroughs would be a fine thing
if they were always in the right pocket, and there were
always a Burke at hand.
—0—
Dorothea. —I should wish to have a husband who
was above me in judgment and in all knowledge.
Mr Brooke— Ah ?—I thought you had more of your
own opinion than most girls. I thought you liked
your own opinion—liked it, you know.
Dorothea.—I cannot imagine myself living without
some opinions, but I should wish to have good reasons
for them, and a wise man could help me to see which
opinions had the best foundation, and would help me
to live according to them.
Mr Brooke.—Very true. You couldn't put the thing

328

Dorothea Brooke.

better—couldn't put it better, beforehand, you know.
But there are oddities in things. Life isn't cast in a
mould—not cut out by rule and line, and that sort of
thing. I never married myself, and it will be the
better for you and yours. The fact is, I never loved
any one well enough to put myself into a noose for
them. It is a noose, you know. Temper now. There
is temper. And a husband likes to be master.
Dorothea.—I know that I must expect trials, uncle.
Marriage is a state of higher duties. I never thought
of it as mere personal ease.
—o—
{To Dorothea!)—You must have a scholar, and that
sort of thing ? Well, it lies a little in our family. I
had it myself—that love of knowledge, and going into
everything—a little too much—it took me too far;
though that sort of thing doesn't often run in the
female line ; or it runs underground like the rivers in
Greece, you know—it comes out in the sons. Clever
sons, clever mothers. I went a good deal into that, at
one time.
People glorify all sorts of bravery except the bravery
they might show on behalf of their nearest neighbours.

I think we deserve to be beaten out of our beautiful
houses with a scourge of small cords—all of us who
let tenants live in such sties as we see round us. Life
in cottages might be happier than ours, if they were
real houses fit tor human beings from whom we expect
duties and affections.

t

•
Dorothea Brooke.

329

After all, people may really have in them some voca
tion which is not quite plain to themselves, may they
not? They may seem idle and weak because they are
growing. We should be very patient with each other,
l think.
—0—
There is no sorrow I have thought more about than
that—to love what is great, and try to reach it, and
yet to fail.
—0—
Failure after long perseverance is much grander
than never to have a striving good enough to be called
a failure.
How very beautiful these gems are ! It is strange
how deeply colours seem to penetrate one, like scent.
I suppose that is the reason why gems are used as
spiritual emblems in the Revelation of St John. They
look like fragments of heaven.
Celia.—O Dodo, you must keep the cross yourself.
Dorothea.—No, no, dear, no.
Celia.—Yes, indeed you must ; it would suit you—
in your black dress, now. You might wear that.
Dorothea.—Not for the world, not for the world.
A cross is the last thing I would wear as a trinket.
Celia.—Then you will think it wicked in me to
wear it.
Dorothea.—No, dear, no. Souls have complexions,
too : what will suit one will not suit another.
—0—.
Sir James Chettam.—Your sister is given to selfmortification, is she not ?

330

Dorothea Brooke.

Celia.—I think she is. She likes giving up.
Dorothea.—If that were true, Cdia, my giving-up
would be self-indulgence, not self-mortification.
—o—
Dorothea {speaking of a tiny Maltese puppy).—It is
painful to me to see these creatures that are bred
merely as pets.
Sir James Chettam.— Oh, why ?
Dorothea.—I believe all the petting that is given
them does not make them happy. They are too help
less : their lives are too frail. A weasel or a mouse
that gets its own living is more interesting. I like to
think that the animals about us have souls something
like our own, and either carry on their own little
affairs or can be companions to us, like Monk here.
Those creatures are parasitic.
—o—
Celia.—How very ugly Mr Casaubon is !
Dorothea.—Celia ! He is one of the most distin
guished-looking men I ever saw. He is remarkably like
the portrait of Locke. He has thesame deep eye-sockets.
Celia.—Had Locke those two white moles with
hairs on them ?
Dorothea.—Oh, I daresay ! when people of a certain
sort looked at him.
Celia.—Mr Casaubon is so sallow.
Dorothea.—All the better. I suppose you admire a
man with the complexion of a cochon de lait.
Celia.—Dodo! I never heard you make such a com
parison before.
Dorothea.—Why should I make it before the occasion
came ? It is a good comparison : the match is perfect.
Celia.—I wonder you show temper, Dorothea.
Dorothea.—It is so painful in you, Celia, that you

Dorothea Brooke.

331

will look at human beings as if they were merely ani
mals with a toilette, and never see the great soul in a
man's face.
Celia.—Has Mr Casaubon a great soul ?
Dorothea.—Yes, I believe he has.
—0—
Celia.—Is any one else coming to dine besides Mr
Casaubon ?
Dorothea.—Not that I know of.
Celia.—I hope there is some one else. Then I shall
not hear him eat his soup so.
Dorothea. — What is there remarkable about his
soup-eating ?
Celia.—Really, Dodo, can't you hear how he scrapes
his spoon ? And he always blinks before he speaks.
I don't know whether Locke blinked, but I'm sure I
am sorry for those who sat opposite to him if he did.
Dorothea.— Celia, pray don't make any more obser
vations of that kind.
Celia.—Why not ? They are quite true.
Dorothea.—Many things are true which only the
commonest minds observe.
Celia.—Then I think the commonest minds must be
rather useful. I think it is a pity Mr Casaubon's
mother had not a commoner mind : she might have
taught him better.
I have always been thinking of the different ways in
which Christianity is taught, and whenever I find one
way that makes it a wider blessing than any other, I
cling to that as the truest—I mean that which takes in
the most good of all kinds, and brings in the most
people as sharers in it. It is surely better to pardon
too much, than to condemn too much.

332

Dorothea and Ladislaw.

Mr Farebrother.—There is the terrible Nemesis
following on some errors, that it is always possible for
those who like it to interpret them into a crime : there
is no proof in favour of the man outside his own con
sciousness and assertion.
Dorothea.—Oh, how cruel ! And would you not
like to be the one person who believed in that man's
innocence, if the rest of the world belied him ? Besides,
there is a man's character beforehand to speak for
him.
Mr Farebrother.—But, my dear Mrs Casaubon,
character is not cut in marble—it is not something
solid and unalterable. It is something living and
changing, and may become diseased as our bodies do.
Dorothea.—Then it may be rescued and healed.

Dorothea.—There are comparatively few paintings
that I can really enjoy. At first when I enter a room
where the walls are covered with frescoes, or with rare
pictures, I feel a kind of awe—like a child present at
great ceremonies where there are grand robes and pro
cessions ; I feel myself in the presence of some higher
life than my own. But when I begin to examine the
pictures one by one, the life goes out of them, or else
is something violent and strange to me. It must be my
own dulness. I am seeing so much all at once, and not
understanding half of it. That always makes one feel
stupid. It is painful to be told that anything is very
fine and not be able to feel that it is fine—something
like being blind, while people talk of the sky.
Ladislaw.—Oh, there is a great deal in the feeling
for art which must be acquired. Art is an old lan
guage with a great many artificial affected styles, and

Dorothea and Ladislaw.

333

sometimes the chief pleasure one gets out of knowing
them is the mere sense of knowing. I enjoy the art of
all sorts here immensely ; but I suppose if I could pick
my enjoyment to pieces I should find it made up of
many different threads. There is something in daub
ing a little one's self, and having an idea of the process.
—0—.
Ladislaw.—You seem not to care about cameos.
Dorothea.—No, frankly, I don't think them a great
object in life.
Ladislaw.—I fear you are a heretic about art gene
rally. How is that ? I should have expected you
to be very sensitive to the beautiful everywhere.
Dorothea.—I suppose I am dull about many things.
I should like to make life beautiful—I mean every
body's life. And then all this immense expense of art,
that seems somehow to lie outside life and make it no
better for the world, pains one. It spoils my enjoy
ment of anything when I am made to think that most
people are shut out from it.
Ladislaw.—I call that the fanaticism of sympathy.
You might say the same of landscape, of poetry, of all
refinement. If you carried it out you ought to be
miserable in your own goodness, and turn evil that
you might have no advantage over others. The best
piety is to enjoy—when you can. You are doing the
most then to save the earth's character as an agreeable
planet. And enjoyment radiates. It is of no use to
try and take care of all the world ; that is being taken
care of when you feel delight—in art or in anything
else. Would you turn all the youth of the world into
a tragic chorus, wailing and moralising over misery ?
I suspect that you have some false belief in the virtues
of misery, and want to make your life a martyrdom.

334

Dorothea and Ladislaw.

Dorothea.—Indeed you mistake me. I am not a sad
melancholy creature. I am never unhappy long to
gether. I am angry and naughty — not like Celia : I
have a great outburst, and then all seems glorious
again. I cannot help believing in glorious things in a
blind sort of way. I should be quite willing to enjoy
the art here, but there is so much that I don't know
the reason of—so much that seems to me a consecra
tion of ugliness rather than beauty. The painting
and sculpture may be wonderful, but the feeling is
often low and brutal, and sometimes even ridiculpus.
Here and there I see what takes me at once as noble
—something that I might compare with the Alban
Mountains or the sunset from the Pincian Hill ; but
that makes it the greater pity that there is so little of
the best kind among all that mass of things over which
men have toiled so.
Ladislaw.—Of course there is always a great deal of
poor work : the rarer things want that soil to grow in.
Dorothea.—O dear, I see it must be very difficult to
do anything good. I have often felt since I have been
in Rome that most of our lives would look much uglier
and more bungling than the pictures, if they could be
put on the wall.
—o—
Dorothea.—It is very difficult to be learned ; it
seems as if people were worn out on the way to great
thoughts, and can never enjoy them because they are
too tired.
Ladislaw.— If a man has a capacity forgreatthoughts,
he is likely to overtake them before he is decrepit. But
it is quite true that the best minds have been some
times overstrained in working out their ideas.
Dorothea.—You correct me. I expressed myself ill.

Dorothea and Ladislaw.

335

I should have said that those who have great thoughts
get too much worn in working them out. I used to
feel about that, even when I was a little girl ; and it
always seemed to me that the use I should like to
make of my life would be to help some one who did
great works, so that his burthen might be lighter.
Dorothea.— Sorrow comes in so many ways. Two
years ago I had no notion of that—I mean of the un
expected way in which trouble comes, and ties our
hands, and makes us silent when we long to speak. I
used to despise women a little for not shaping their
lives more, and doing better things. I was very fond
of doing as I liked, but I have almost given it up.
Ladislaw.— I have not given up doing as I like, but
I can very seldom do it. The thing one most longs
for may be surrounded with conditions that would be
intolerable.
—0—
Ladislaw—\ shall hardly ever see you now.
Dorothea.— No, hardly ever. But I shall hear of
you. I shall know what you are doing for my uncle.
Ladislaw.—I shall know hardly anything about you.
No one will tell me anything.
Dorothea.—Oh, my life is very simple. I am always
at Lowick.
Ladislaw.—That is a dreadful imprisonment.
Dorothea.—No, don't think that. I have no long
ings. I mean, for myself. Except that I should like
not to have so much more than my share without
doing anything for others. But I have a belief of my
own, and it comforts me.
Ladislaw.—What is that ?
Dorothea.—That by desiring what is perfectly good,

336

Mr FarebrotJicr.

even when we don't quite know what it is and cannot
do what we would, we are part of the divine power
against evil—widening the skirts of light and making
the struggle with darkness narrower.
Ladislaw.—That is a beautiful mysticism—it is a
Dorothea. —Please not to call it by any name. You
will say it is Persian, or something else geographical.
It is my life. I have found it out, and cannot part
with it. I have always been finding out my religion
since I was a little girl. I used to pray so much—
now I hardly ever pray. I try not to have desires
merely for myself, because they may not be good for
others, and I have too much already. I only told you,
that you might know quite well how my days go
at Lowick.
Ladislaw.—God bless you for telling me !
Dorothea.—What is your religion ? I mean—not
what you know about religion, but the belief that
helps you most?
Ladislaw.—To love what is good and beautiful
when I see it. But I am a rebel : I don't feel bound,
as you do, to submit to what I don't like.
Dorothea.—But if you like what is good, that comes
to the same thing.
It's rather a strong check to one's self-complacency
to find how much of one's right doing depends on not
being in want of money. A man will not be tempted
to say the Lord's Prayer backward to please the devil,
if he doesn't want the devil's services.
—0—
If a man goes a little too far along a new road, it is
usually himself that he harms more than any one else.

Mr Farebrother.

337

To think of the part one little woman can play in
the life of a man, so that to renounce her may be
a very good imitation of heroism, and to win her may
be a discipline !
—o—
I don't translate my own convenience into other
people's duties.
— o—
There's no knowing what a mixture will turn out
beforehand. Some sorts of dirt serve to clarify.
Mr Farebrother.—Men of your profession don't
generally smoke. Nor of mine either, properly, I
suppose. You will hear that pipe alleged against
me by Bulstrode and Company. They don't know
how pleased the devil would be if I gave it up.
Lydgate.—I understand. You are of an excitable
temper and want a sedative. I am heavier, and
should get idle with it. I should rush into idleness,
and stagnate there with all my might.
Mr Farebrother.—And you mean to give it all to
your work. I am some ten or twelve years older than
you, and have come to a compromise. I feed a weak
ness or two lest they should get clamorous.
—o—
Lydgate.—Don't you think men overrate the neces
sity for humouring everybody's nonsense, till they get
despised by the very fools they humour ? The short
est way is to make your value felt, so that people must
put up with you whether you flatter them or not.
Mr Farebrother.—With all my heart. But then you
must be sure of having the value, and you must keep
yourself independent. Very few men can do that.
Y

338

Mary Garth.

Either you slip out of service altogether, and become
good for nothing, or you wear the harness and draw a
good deal where your yoke-fellows pull you.
{To Lydgate.)—Take care—experto crede—take care
not to get hampered about money matters. I know,
by a word you let fall one day, that you don't like my
playing at cards so much for money. You are right
enough there. But try and keep clear of wanting
small sums that you haven't got. I am perhaps talk
ing rather superfluously ; but a man likes to assume
superiority over himself, by holding up his bad ex
ample and sermonising on it.
Mary.—What a brown patch I am by the side of
you, Rosy ! You are the most unbecoming com
panion.
Rosamond Vincy.—Oh no ! No one thinks of your
appearance, you are so sensible and useful, Mary.
Beauty is of very little consequence in reality.
Mary.—You mean my beauty.
Rosamond.—What have you been doing lately ?
Mary.—I ? Oh, minding the house—pouring out
syrup — pretending to be amiable and contented—
learning to have a bad opinion of everybody.
Rosamond.—It is a wretched life for you.
Mary.—No. I think my life is pleasanter than your
Miss Morgan's.
Rosamond.—Yes ; but Miss Morgan is so unin
teresting, and not young.
Mary.—She is interesting to herself, I suppose ; and
I am not at all sure that everything gets easier as one
gets older.

Mary Garth.

339

I suppose we never quite understand why another
dislikes what we like.
—o—
To me it is one of the most odious things in a girl's
life, that there must always be some supposition of
falling in love coming between her and any man who
is kind to her, and to whom she is grateful.
Fred Vincy.—I don't see how a man is to be good
for much unless he has some one woman to love him
dearly.
Mary.—I think the goodness should come before he
expects that.
Fred. .— You know better, Mary. Women don't
love men for their goodness.
Mary.—Perhaps not. But if they love them, they
never think them bad.
Fred Vincy.—I suppose a woman is never in love
with any one she has always known—ever since she
can remember ; as a man often is. It is always some
new fellow who strikes a girl.
Mary.—Let me see. I must go back on my experi
ence. There is Juliet—she seems an example of what
you say. But then Ophelia had probably known
Hamlet a long while ; and Brenda Troil—she had
known Mordaunt Merton ever since they were chil
dren ; but then he seems to have been an estimable
young man ; and Minna was still more deeply in love
with Cleveland, who was a stranger. Waverley was
new to Flora Maclvor ; but then she did not fall in
love with him. And there are Olivia and Sophia
Primrose, and Corinne—they may be said to have

34°

Mary Garth.

fallen in love with new men. Altogether my experi
ence is rather mixed.
Fred Vincy. — I am not fit to be a poor man. I
should not have made a bad fellow if I had been rich.
Mary.—You would have done your duty in that
state of life to which it has not pleased God to call
you.
Mary.—I could not love a man who is ridiculous.
Fred has sense and knowledge enough to make him
respectable, if he likes, in some good worldly business,
but I can never imagine him preaching and exhorting,
and pronouncing blessings, and praying by the sick,
without feeling as if I were looking at a caricature.
His being a clergyman would be only for gentility's
sake, and I think there is nothing more contemptible
than such imbecile gentility. I used to think that of
Mr Crowse, with his empty face and neat umbrella and
mincing little speeches. What right have such men
to represent Christianity—as if it were an institution
for getting up idiots genteelly—as if
Mr Farebrother.—Young women are severe ; they
don't feel the stress of action as men do, though per
haps I ought to make you an exception there. But
you don't put Fred Vincy on so low a level as that.
Mary.—No, indeed ; he has plenty of sense, but I
think he would not show it as a clergyman. He would
be a piece of professional affectation.
—o—
Mr Farebrother.—Fred says frankly he is not fit for
a clergyman, and I would do anything I could to
hinder a man from the fatal step of choosing the

Caleb Garth.

34 1

wrong profession. He quoted to me what you said,
Miss Garth—do you remember it ?
Mary.—I have said so many impertinent things to
Fred—we are such old playfellows.
Mr Farebrother.—You said, according to him, that
he would be one of those ridiculous clergymen who
help to make the whole clergy ridiculous. Really,
that was so cutting that I felt a little cut myself.
Caleb Garth.—She gets her tongue from you, Susan,
Mary.—Not its flippancy, father. It is rather too
bad of Fred to repeat my flippant speeches to Mr
Farebrother.
Mrs Garth.—It was certainly a hasty speech, my
dear. We should not value our Vicar the less because
there was a ridiculous curate in the next parish.
Caleb.—There's something in what she says, though.
A bad workman of any sort makes his fellows mis
trusted. Things hang together.
Mr Farebrother.—Clearly. By being contemptible
we set men's minds to the tune of contempt. I cer
tainly agree with Miss Garth's view of the matter,
whether I am condemned by it or not.
—0—
Mary.—I don't love Fred because he is a fine match.
Caleb—What for then ?
Mary.—Oh dear, because I have always loved him.
I should never like scolding any one else so well ; and
that is a point to be thought of in a husband.
Fred Vincy.—You do think I could do some good
at this sort of work, if I were to try ?
Caleb.—That depends. You must be sure of two
things : you must love your work, and not be always

342

Caleb Garth.

looking over the edge of it, wanting your play to
begin. And the other is, you must not be ashamed of
your work, and think it would be more honourable to
you to be doing something else. You must have a
pride in your own work and in learning to do it well,
and not be always saying. There's this and there's
that—if I had this or that to do, I might make some
thing of it. No matter what a man is—I wouldn't
give twopence for him, whether he was the prime
minister or the rick-thatcher, if he didn't do well what
he undertook to do.
Fred.—I can never feel that I should do that in
being a clergyman.
Caleb.—Then let it alone, my boy, else you'll never
be easy. Or, if you are easy, you'll be a poor stick.
It makes me very happy, Mr Farebrother, that I've
got an opportunity again with the letting of the land,
and carrying out a notion or two with improvements.
It's a most uncommonly cramping thing, as I've often
told Susan, to sit on horseback, and look over the
hedges at the wrong thing, and not be able to put
your hand to it to make it right. What people do
who go into politics I can't think : it drives me almost
mad to see mismanagement over only a few hundred
acres.
•—o—
A man may do wrong, and his will may rise clear
out of it, though he can't get his life clear. That's a
bad punishment.
—o—
Things may be bad for the poor man—bad they are;
but I want the lads here not to do what will make

Caleb Garth.

343

things worse for themselves. The cattle may have a
heavy load ; but it won't help 'em to throw it over into
the roadside pit, when it's partly their own fodder.

I hold it a crime to expose a man's sin unless I'm
clear it must be done to save the innocent.

The young ones have always a claim on the old to
help them forward. I was young myself once, and
had to do without much help ; but help would have
been welcome to me, if it had been only for the fellowfeeling's sake.
—o—
The soul of man, when it gets fairly rotten, will
bear you all sorts of poisonous toad-stools, and no eye
can see whence came the seed thereof.

{To his wife.)—A true love for a good woman is a
great thing, Susan. It shapes many a rough fellow.

Marriage is a taming thing.

Mrs Garth.—It seems to me, a loss which falls on
another because we have done right is not to lie upon
our conscience.
Caleb.—It's the feeling. You don't mean your horse
to tread on a dog when you're backing out of the way;
but it goes through you when it's done.

344

Mrs Cadwallader.

There's no sort of work that could ever be done
well if you minded what fools say. You must have it
inside you that your plan is right, and that plan you
must follow.
—o—
Caleb.—It's a thousand pities Christy didn't take to
business, Susan. I shall want help by-and-by. And
Alfred must go off to the engineering—I've made up
my mind to that. I shall make Brooke have new
agreements with the tenants, and I shall draw up a
rotation of crops. And I'll lay a wager we can get
fine bricks out of the clay at Bott's corner. I must
look into that : it would cheapen the repairs. It's a
fine bit of work, Susan ! A man without a family
would be glad to do it for nothing.
Mrs Garth.—Mind you don't, though.
Caleb.—No, no ; but it's a fine thing to come to a
man when he's seen into the nature of business : to
have the chance of getting a bit of the country into
good fettle, as they say, and putting men into the
right way with their farming, and getting a bit of
good contriving and solid building done—that those
who are living and those who come after will be the
better for. I'd sooner have it than a fortune. I hold
it the most honourable work that is. It's a great gift
of God, Susan.
Mrs Garth.—-That it is, Caleb. And it will be a
blessing to your children to have had a father who
did such work : a father whose good work remains
though his name may be forgotten.
Celia Brooke.-—I will go anywhere with you, Mrs
Cadwallader ; but I don't like funerals.

Mrs Cadwallader.

345

Mrs Cadwallader.—Oh, my dear, when you have a
clergyman in your family you must accommodate
your tastes : I did that very early. When I married
Humphrey I made up my mind to like sermons, and I
set out by liking the end very much. That soon
spread to the middle and the beginning, because I
couldn't have the end without them.
A woman's choice usually means taking the only
man she can get.
—0—
These charitable people never know vinegar from
wine till they have swallowed it and got the colic.
—0—
It is not martyrdom to pay bills that one has run
into one's self.
—0—
I can't wear my solemnity too often, else it will go
to rags.
—0—
Miserliness is a capital quality to run in families ;
it's the safe side for madness to dip on.
Sir James Chettam.—I don't believe a man is in
pocket by stinginess on his land.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Oh, stinginess may be abused
like other virtues : it will not do to keep one's own
pigs lean.
—0—.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Dorothea is engaged to be
married. Engaged to Casaubon.

346

Mrs Cadwalladcr.

Sir yames Chettam.—Casaubon ?
Mrs Cadwallader.—Even so.
Sir James.—Good God ! It is horrible ! He is no
better than a mummy!
Mrs Cadwallader.—She says he is a great soul.—A
great bladder for dried peas to rattle in !
—0—
Lady Chettam.—Where can all the strength of those
medicines go, my dear?
Mrs Cadwallader. — It strengthens the disease.
Everything depends on the constitution : some people
make fat, some blood, and some bile—that's my view
of the matter : and whatever they take is a sort of
grist to the mill.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Now, do not let them lure you
to the hustings, my dear Mr Brooke. A man always
makes a fool of himself, speechifying : there's no ex
cuse but being on the right side, so that you can ask
a blessing on your humming and hawing. You will
lose yourself, I forewarn you. You will make a
Saturday pie of all parties' opinions, and be pelted by
everybody.
,
Mr Brooke.—That is what I expect, you know—
what I expect as an independent man. As to the
Whigs, a man who goes with the thinkers is not likely
to be hooked on by any party. He may go with them
up to a certain point—up to a certain point, you know.
But that is what you ladies never understand.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Where your certain point is?
No. I should like to be told how a man can have any
certain point when he belongs to no party—leading a

Mrs Cadwallader.

347

roving life, and never letting his friends know his
address. ' Nobody knows where Brooke will be—
there's no counting on Brooke '—that is what people
say of you, to be quite frank. Now, do turn respect
able. How will you like going to Sessions with
everybody looking shy on you, and you with a bad
conscience and an empty pocket?
Mr Brooke.—I don't pretend to argue with a lady
on politics. Your sex are not thinkers, you know—
varium et mutabile semper—that kind of thing. You
don't know Virgil. I knew—I was going to say, poor
Stoddart, you know. That was what he said. You
ladies are always against an independent attitude—a
man's caring for nothing but truth, and that sort of
thing. And there is no part of the country where
opinion is narrower than it is here—I don't mean to
throw stones, you know, but somebody is wanted to
take the independent line ; and if I don't take it, who
will ?
Mrs Cadwallader.—Who ? Why, any upstart who
has got neither blood nor position. People of stand
ing should consume their independent nonsense at
home, not hawk it about.
—0—
Mrs Cadwallader.—I warned you all of it. I said
to Humphrey long ago, Mr Brooke is going to make
a splash in the mud. And now he has done it.
Mr Cadwallader.—Well, he might have taken it
into his head to marry. That would have been a
graver mess than a little flirtation with politics.
Mrs Cadwallader.—He may do that afterwards,
when he has come out on the other side of the mud
with an ague.

348

Mrs Cadwallader.

Mr Cadwallader.—I suppose it's no use trying any
persuasion. There's such an odd mixture of obstinacy
and changeableness in Brooke.
Mrs Cadwallader.—There is one good chance—that
he will not like to feel his money oozing away. If I
knew the items of election expenses I could scare him.
It's no use plying him with wide words like Expendi
ture : I wouldn't talk of phlebotomy, I would empty
a pot of leeches upon him. What we good stingy
people don't like, is having our sixpences sucked away
from us.
—o—
Mrs Cadwallader.—You will certainly go mad in
that house alone, my dear. You will see visions.
We have all got to exert ourselves a little to keep
sane, and call things by the same names as other
people call them by. To be sure, for younger sons
and women who have no money, it is a sort of pro
vision to go mad : they are taken care of then. But
you must not run into that. I daresay you are a
little bored here with our good dowager; but think
what a bore you might become yourself to your
fellow-creatures if you were always playing tragedy
queen and taking things sublimely. Sitting alone in
that library at Lowick you may fancy yourself ruling
the weather; you must get a few people round you
who wouldn't believe you if you told them. That is
a good lowering medicine.
Dorothea.—I never called everything by the same
name that all the people about me did.
Mrs Cadwallader.—But I suppose you have found
out your mistake, my dear, and that is a proof of
sanity.
Dorothea.—No. I still think that the greater part of

Mrs Cadwallader.

349

the world is mistaken about many things. Surely one
may be sane and yet think so, since the greater part
of the world has often had to come round from its
opinion.
Celia.—Dodo need not make such a slavery of her
mourning ; she need not wear that cap any more
among her friends.
Lady Chettam.—My dear Celia, a widow must wear
her mourning at least a year.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Not if she marries again before
the end of it.
Lady Chettam.—That is very rare, I hope. No
friend of ours ever committed herself in that way
except Mrs Beevor, and it was very painful to Lord
Grinsell when she did so. Her first husband was
objectionable, which made it the greater wonder.
And severely she was punished for it. They said
Captain Beevor dragged her about by the hair, and
held up loaded pistols at her.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Oh, if she took the wrong man !
Marriage is always bad then, first or second. Priority
is a poor recommendation in a husband if he has got
no other. I would rather have a good second husband
than an indifferent first.
Lady Chettam.—My dear, your clever tongue runs
away with you. I am sure you would be the last
woman to marry again prematurely, if our dear Rector
were taken away.
Mrs Cadwallader.—Oh, I make no vows ; it might
be a necessary economy. It is lawful to marry again,
I suppose ; else we might as well be Hindoos instead
of Christians. Of course if a woman accepts the wrong
man, she must take the consequences, and one who does

350

Mr Vincy—Mr Trumbull.

it twice over deserves her fate. But if she can marry
blood, beauty, and bravery—the sooner the better.
Mr Bulstrode {pouring himself out a glass of
water, and opening a sandwich box).—I cannot per
suade you to adopt my regimen, Vincy ?
Mr Vincy.—No, no ; I've no opinion of that system.
Life wants padding.
I've never changed : I'm a plain Churchman now,
just as I used to be before doctrines came up. I take
the world as I find it, in trade and everything else.
I'm contented to be no worse than my neighbours.
—o—
If you come to religion, it seems to me a man
shouldn't want to carve out his meat to an ounce be
forehand :—one must trust a little to Providence and
be generous.
—0—
{To Bulstrode).—I never professed to be anything
but worldly : and, what's more, I don't see anybody
else who is not worldly. I suppose you don't conduct
business on what you call unworldly principles. The
only difference I see is that one worldliness is a little
bit honester than another.
—0—
Mr Vincy.—I tell you the lad's an unlucky lad, Lucy.
And you've always spoiled him.
Mrs Vincy.—Well, Vincy, he was my first, and you
made a fine fuss with him when he came. You were
as proud as proud.
Mr Vincy. —Who knows what babies will turn to ?
I was fool enough, I daresay.
Mr Trumbull.— Now, ladies, I shall appeal to you.

Mr Trumbull.

35 1

Here is a fender which at any other sale would hardly
be offered without reserve, being, as I may say, for
quality of steel and quaintness of design, a kind of
thing that might not fall in with ordinary tastes.
Allow me to tell you that by-and-by this style of work
manship will be the only one in vogue—half-a-crown,
you said ? thank you—going at half-a-crown, this
characteristic fender ; and I have particular informa
tion that the antique style is very much sought after in
high quarters. Three shillings—three-and-sixpence—
hold it well up, Joseph ! Look, ladies, at the chastity
of the design—I have no doubt myself that it was
turned out in the last century ! Four shillings, Mr
Mawmsey ?—four shillings.
Mrs Mawmsey.—It's not a thing I would put in my
drawing-room. I wonder at Mrs Larcher. Every
blessed child's head that fell against it would be cut
in two. The edge is like a knife.
Mr Trumbull. —Quite true, and most uncommonly
useful to have a fender at hand that will cut, if you
have a leather shoe-tie or a bit of string that wants
cutting and no knife at hand : many a man has been
left hanging because there was no knife to cut him
down. Gentlemen, here's a fender that if you had the
misfortune to hang yourselves would cut you down in
no time—with astonishing celerity—four-and-sixpence
—five—five-and-sixpence—an appropriate thing for a
spare bedroom where there was a four-poster and a
guest a little out of his mind—six shillings—thank you,
Mr Clintup—going at six shillings—going—gone !
Mr Clintup.—-It was worth six shillings to have a
fender you could always tell that joke on.
Mr Trumbull.—Now, ladies, this tray contains a very
recherchy lot—a collection of trifles for the drawing

352

Mr Trumbull.

room table—and trifles make the sum of human things
—nothing more important than trifles—(yes, Mr Ladislaw, yes, by-and-by)—but pass the tray round, Joseph—
these bijoux must be examined, ladies. This I have in
my hand is an ingenious contrivance—a sort of practical
lebus, I may call it: here, you see, it looks like an
elegant heart-shaped box, portable—for the pocket :
there again, it becomes like a splendid double flower—
an ornament for the table ; and now—a book of riddles !
No less than five hundred printed in a beautiful red.
Gentlemen, if I had less of a conscience, I should not
wish you to bid high for this lot—I have a longing for
it myself. What can promote innocent mirth, and I
may say virtue, more than a good riddle ?—it hinders
profane language, and attaches a man to the society of
refined females. This ingenious article itself, without
the elegant domino-box, card-basket, &c, ought alone
to give a high price to the lot. Carried in the pocket
it might make an individual welcome in any society.
Four shillings, sir?—four shillings for this remarkable
collection of riddles with the et cameras. Here is a
sample : ' How must you spell honey to make it catch
lady-birds? Answer — money.' You hear? — lady
birds — honey — money. This is an amusement to
sharpen the intellect ; it has a sting—it is what we
call satire, and wit without indecency. Four-and-sixpence—five shillings.
—o—
Mr Trumbull. —Yes, Mr Ladislaw, yes ; this ini
terests you as a connoissz^r, I think. It is some
pleasure to have a picture like this to show to a com
pany of ladies and gentlemen—a picture worth any
sum to an individual whose means were on a level

Mr Trumbull.

353

with his judgment. It is a painting of the Italian
school—by the celebrated Guydo, the greatest painter
in the world, the chief of the Old Masters, as they are
called—I take it, because they were up to a thing or
two beyond most of us—in possession of secrets now
lost to the bulk of mankind. Let me tell you, gentle
men, I have seen a great many pictures by the Old
Masters, and they are not all up to this mark—some
of them are darker than you might like, and not family
subjects. But here is a Guydo—the frame alone is
worth pounds—which any lady might be proud to
hang up—a suitable thing for what we call a refectory
in a charitable institution, if any gentleman of the
Corporation wished to show his munificence. Turn it
a little, sir? yes. Joseph, turn it a little towards Mr
Ladislaw—Mr Ladislaw, having been abroad, under
stands the merit of these things, you observe.
Ladislaw.—Five pounds.
Mr Trumbull.—Ah ! Mr Ladislaw! the frame alone
is worth that. Ladies and gentlemen, for the credit of
the town ! Suppose it should be discovered hereafter
that a gem of art has been amongst us in this town,
and nobody in Middlemarch awake to it. Five guineas
—five seven-six—five ten. Still, ladies, still ! It is a
gem, and ' Full many a gem, ' as the poet says, has
been allowed to go at a nominal price because the
public knew no better, because it was offered in circles
where there was— I was going to say a low feeling,
but no !—Six pounds—six guineas—a Guydo of the
first order going at six guineas—it is an insult to
religion, ladies; it touches us all as Christians, gentle
men, that a subject like this should go at such a low
figure—six pounds ten—seven
.
z

354

Dr Lydgate.

Mr Trumbull.—Now, gentlemen, you who are con
noisseur*, you are going to have a treat. Here is an
engraving of the Duke of Wellington surrounded by
his staff on the field of Waterloo ; and notwithstand
ing recent events which have, as it were, enveloped
our great hero in a cloud, I will be bold to say— for a
man in my line must not be blown about by political
winds—that a finer subject—of the modern order, be
longing to our own time and epoch—the understand
ing of man could hardly conceive : angels might,
perhaps, but not men, sirs, not men.
Mr Powderell.—Who painted it ?
Mr Trumbull—-It is a proof before the letter, Mr
Powderell—the painter is not known.
Mr Powderell.—I'll bid a pound !

If I had not taken that turn when I was a lad, I
might have got into some stupid draught-horse work
or other, and lived always in blinkers. I should never
have been happy in any profession that did not call
forth the highest intellectual strain, and yet keep me
in good warm contact with my neighbours. There
is nothing like the medical profession for that: one
can have the exclusive scientific life that touches the
distance and befriend the old fogies in the parish too.
—o—
Trawley would have it, the medical profession was
an inevitable system of humbug. I said, the fault was
in the men—men who truckle to lies and folly. In
stead of preaching against humbug outside the walls,
it might be better to set up a disinfecting apparatus
within.

Dr Lydgate.

355

The fittest man for a particular post is not always
the best fellow or the most agreeable. Sometimes, if
you wanted to get a reform, your only way would be
to pension off the good fellows whom everybody is
fond of, and put them out of the question.
—o—
There must be a systole and diastole in all inquiry.
A man's mind must be continually expanding and
shrinking between the whole human horizon and the
horizon of an object-glass.
What we call the 'just possible' is sometimes true,
and the thing we find it easier to believe is grossly
false.
The most terrible obstacles are such as nobody can
see except one's self.
It is curious what patches of hardness and tender
ness lie side by side in men's dispositions.
—o—.
{To Mrs Lydgate.)—Haven't you ambition to want
your husband to be something better than a Middlemarch doctor ? I shall make you learn my favourite
bit from an old poet—
' Why should our pride make such a stir to be
And be forgot ? What good is like to this,
To do worthy the writing, and to write
Worthy the reading and the world's delight ? '
What I want, Rosy, is to do worthy the writing,—and
to write out myself what I have done. A man must
work, to do that, my pet.

356

Various Characters.

Mrs Lydgate.—Do you know, Tertius, I often wish
you had not been a medical man.
Lydgate.—Nay, Rosy, don't say that. That is like
saying you wish you had married another man.
Mrs Lydgate.—Not at all ; you are clever enough
for anything : you might easily have been something
else. And your cousins at Quallingham all think that
you have sunk below them in your choice of a profes
sion.
Lydgate.—The cousins at Quallingham may go to
the devil ! It was like their impudence if they said
anything of the sort to you.
Mrs Lydgate.—Still, I do not think it is a nice pro
fession, dear.
Lydgate.—It is the grandest profession in the world,
Rosamond. And to say that you love me without
loving the medical man in me, is like saying that you
like eating a peach but don't like its flavour. Don't
say it again, dear, it pains me.

They say fortune is a woman and capricious. But
sometimes she is a good woman, and gives to those
who merit.—Mrs Farebrother.

Mrs Farebrother.— \ say, keep hold of a few plain
truths, and make everything square with them. When
I was young, Mr Lydgate, there never was any ques
tion about right and wrong. We knew our catechism,
and that was enough ; we learned our creed and our
duty. Every respectable Church person had the same
opinions. But now, if you speak out of the Prayerbook itself, you are liable to be contradicted.

Various Characters.

357

Lydgate.—That makes rather a pleasant time of it '
for those who like to maintain their own point.
Mr Farebrother.—But my mother always gives way.
Mrs Farebrother.—No, no, Camden, you must not
lead Mr Lydgate into a mistake about me. I shall
never show that disrespect to my parents, to give up
what they taught me. Any one may see what comes
of turning. If you change once, why not twenty times?
Lydgate.—A man might see good arguments for
changing once, and not see them, for changing again.
Mrs Farebrother.—Excuse me there. If you go
upon arguments, they are never wanting, when a man
has no constancy of mind. My father never changed,
and he preached plain moral sermons without argu
ments, and was a good man—few better. When you
get me a good man made out of arguments, I will get
you a good dinner with reading you the cookery-book.
That's my opinion, and I think anybody's stomach
will bear me out.
Mr Farebrother.—About the dinner certainly, mo
ther.
Mrs Farebrother.—It is the same thing, the dinner
or the man. I am nearly seventy, Mr Lydgate, and I
go upon experience. I am not likely to follow new
lights, though there are plenty of them here as else
where. I say, they came in with the mixed stuffs that
will neither wash nor wear. It was not so in my
youth : a Churchman was a Churchman, and a clergy
man, you might be pretty sure, was a gentleman, if
nothing else. But now he may be no better than a
Dissenter.

What's Bulstrode ?—he's got no land hereabout that

358

Various CJiaracters.

ever I heard tell of. A speculating fellow ! He maycome down any day, when the devil leaves off backing
him. And that's what his religion means : he wants
God A'mighty to come in. That's nonsense ! There's
one thing I made out pretty clear when I used to go
to church—and it's this : God A'mighty sticks to the
land. He promises land, and He gives land, and He
makes chaps rich with corn and cattle.—Mr Featherstone.
—o—
The little waves make the large ones, and are of the
same pattern.—Ladislaw.
Obligation may be stretched till it is no better than
a brand of slavery stamped on us when we were too
young to know its meaning.—Ladislaw.
—o—
Ladislaw.—You want to express too much with your
painting. And what is a portrait of a woman ? Your
painting and Plastik are poor stuff after all. They
perturb and dull conceptions instead of raising them.
Language is a finer, medium.
Naumann.—Yes, for those who can't paint. There
you have perfect right. I did not recommend you to
paint, my friend.
Ladislaw.—Language gives a fuller image, which is
all the better for being vague. After all, the true see
ing is within ; and painting stares at you with an in
sistent imperfection. I feel that especially about
representations of women. As if a woman were a
mere coloured superficies ! You must wait for move
ment and tone. There is a difference in their very

Various Characters.

359

breathing : they change from moment to moment.—
This woman whom you have just seen, for example :
how would you paint her voice, pray ? But her voice
is much diviner than anything you have seen of her.
To be a poet is to have a soul so quick to discern
that no shade of quality escapes it, and so quick to
feel, that discernment is but a hand playing with
finely-ordered variety on the chords of emotion— a soul
in which knowledge passes instantaneously into feel
ing, and feeling flashes back as a new organ of know
ledge.—Ladislaw.
—6—
Lydgate.—It's no use your puffing Brooke (in the
'Pioneer') as a reforming landlord, Ladislaw: they
only pick the more holes in his coat in the ' Trumpet.'
Ladislaw.—No matter ; those who read the ' Pioneer'
don't read the ' Trumpet.' Do you suppose the public
reads with a view to its own conversion ? We
should have a witches' brewing with a vengeance
then—' Mingle, mingle, mingle, mingle, You- that
mingle may '—and nobody would know which side he
was going to take.
Ladislaw.—It's good to have resident members [of
Parliament].
Lydgate. —Why ?
Ladislaw. — They represent the local stupidity
better ; and they are kept on their best behaviour in
the neighbourhood.
Wait for wisdom and conscience in public agents—
fiddlestick ! The only conscience we can trust to is

360

Various Characters.

the massive sense of wrong in a class, and the best
wisdom that will work is the wisdom of balancing
claims. That's my text—which side is injured ? I
support the man who supports their claims; not the
virtuous upholder of the wrong.—Ladislaw.
—0—.
You made a bad hand at swapping when you went
to anybody but me, Vincy. Why, you never threw
your leg across a finer horse than that chestnut, and
you gave him for this brute. If you set him cantering,
he goes on like twenty sawyers. I never heard but
one worse roarer in my life, and that was a roan : it
belonged to Pegwell, the corn-factor ; he used to drive
him in his gig seven years ago, and he wanted me to
take him, but I said, ' Thank you, Peg, I don't deal
in wind-instruments.' That was what I said. It
went the round of the country, that joke did.—Mr
Bambridge.
Mr Standish.—A fine woman, Miss Brooke ! an
uncommonly fine woman, by God !
Mr Chichely.—Yes, but not my style of woman : I
like a woman who lays herself out a little more to
please us. There should be a little filigree about a
woman—something of the coquette. A man likes a
sort of challenge. The more of a dead set she makes
at you the better.
Mr Standish.—There's some truth in that. And,
by God, it's usually the way with them. I suppose it
answers some wise ends : Providence made them so,
eh, Bulstrode?
Mr Bulstrode.—I should be disposed to refer co
quetry to another source. I should rather refer it to
the devil.

Various Characters.

361

Mr Chichely.—Ay, to be sure, there should be a
little devil in a woman.
—0—
Mrs Cadwallader says it is nonsense, people going
a long journey when they are married. She says they
get tired to death of each other, and can't quarrel
comfortably, as they would at home.—Celia Brooke.
—0—
I'n seen lots o' things turn up sin' I war a young
un—the war an' the peace, and the canells, an' the
oald King George, an' the Regen', an' the new King
George, an' the new un as has got a new ne-ame— •
an' it's been all aloike to the poor mon. What's the
canells been t' him? They 'n brought him neyther
me-at nor be-acon, nor wage to lay by, if he didn't
save it wi' clemmin' his own inside. Times ha' got
wusser for him sin' I war a young un. An' so it'll be
wi' the railroads. They'll on'y leave the poor mon
furder behind. But them are fools as meddle. This
is the big folks's world, this is.— Timothy Cooper.
—0—
Mr Mawmsey.—As to Reform, sir, put it in a family
light. Will it support Mrs Mawmsey, and enable her
to bring up six children when I am no more ? I put
the question fictiously, knowing what must be the
answer. Very well, sir. I ask you what, as a husband
and a father, I am to do when gentlemen come to me
and say, ' Do as you like, Mawmsey ; but if you vote
against us, I shall get my groceries elsewhere : when
I sugar my liquor I like to feel that I am benefiting
the country by maintaining tradesmen of the right
colour.' Those very words have been spoken to me,

362

Various Characters.

sir, in the very chair where you are now sitting. I
don't mean by your honourable self, Mr Brooke.
Mr Brooke.—No, no, no—that's narrow, you know.
Until my butler complains to me of your goods, Mr
Mawmsey, until I hear that you send bad sugars,
spices—that sort of thing— I shall never order him to
go elsewhere.
Mr Mawmsey.—Sir, I am your humble servant, and
greatly obliged. There would be some pleasure in
voting for a gentleman who speaks in that honourable
manner.
,
Mr Brooke.—Well, you know, Mr Mawmsey, you
would find it the right thing to put yourself on our
side. This Reform will touch everybody by-and-by—
a thoroughly popular measure—a sort of A, B, C, you
know, that must come first before the rest'can follow.
I quite agree with you that you've got to look at the
thing in a family light : but public spirit, now. We're
all one family, you know — it's all one cupboard.
Such a thing as a vote, now : why, it may help to
make men's fortunes at the Cape—there's no knowing
what may be the effect of a vote.
Mr Mawmsey.—I beg your pardon, sir, but I can't
afford that. When I give a vote I must know what
I'm doing ; I must look to what will be the effects on
my till and ledger, speaking respectfully. Prices, I'll
admit, are what nobody can know the merits of; and
the sudden falls after you've bought in currants, which
are a goods that will not keep—I've never myself seen
into the ins and outs there ; which is a rebuke to
human pride. But as to one family, there's debtor
and creditor, I hope ; they're not going to reform that
away ; else I should vote for things staying as they
are. Few men have less need to cry for change than

Various Characters.

363

I have, personally speaking — that is, for self and
family. I am not one of those who have nothing to
lose : I mean as to respectability both in parish and
private business, and noways in respect of your hon
ourable self and custom, which you was good enough
to say you would not withdraw from me, vote or no
vote, while the article sent in was satisfactory.
There are men who don't mind about being kicked
blue if they can only get talked about.—Dr Sprague.
We must not inquire too curiously into motives.
They are apt to become feeble in the utterance : the
aroma is mixed with the grosser air. We must keep
the germinating grain away from the light.—Mr Casaubon.
Upon my word, I think the truth is the hardest
missile one can be pelted with.—Mr Cadwallader.
—0—
{To Mrs Casaubon.)—There's a reason in mourning,
as I've always said ; and three folds at the bottom of
your skirt and a plain quilling in your bonnet—and if
ever anybody looked like an angel, it's you in a net
quilling—is what's consistent for a second year. At
least, that's my thinking ; and if anybody was to
marry me flattering himself as I should wear those
hijeous weepers two years for him, he'd be deceived
by his own vanity, that's all.— Tantripp.
Sir yames Chettam.—I think that Dorothea com
mits a wrong action in marrying Ladislaw.

364

Various CJiaracters.

Mr Cadwallader.—My dear fellow, we are rather
apt to consider an act wrong because it is unpleasant
to us.
—0 —
Fred Vincy.—I don't know what to do, unless I can
get at Mary's feeling.
Mr Farebrother.—You mean that you would be
guided by that as to your going into the Church ?
Fred.—If Mary said she would never have me I
might as well go wrong in one way as another.
Mr Farebrother.—That is nonsense, Fred. Men
outlive their love, but they don't outlive the conse
quences of their recklessness.
Fred.—Not my sort of love . I have never been
without loving Mary. If I had to give her up, it
would be like beginning to live on wooden legs.
—0—
Mr Brooke.—Dagley, my good fellow.
Dagley.—Oh, ay, I'm a good feller, am I ? Thank
ye, sir, thank ye. I'm glad to hear I'm a good feller.
Mr Brooke.—Your little lad Jacob has been caught
killing a leveret, Dagley : I have told Johnson to lock
him up in the empty stable an hour or two, just to
frighten him, you know. But he will be brought home
by-and-by, before night : and you'll just look after
him, will you, and give him a reprimand, you know ?
Dagley.— No, I woon't : I'll be dee'd if I'll leather
my boy to please you or anybody else, not if you was
twenty landlords istid o' one, and that a bad un.
Mr Brooke.—Well, well, I'll speak to your wife—I
didn't mean beating, you know. How do you do,
Mrs Dagley ? I came to tell you about your boy : I
don't want you to give him the stick, you know.

Various Characters.

365

Dagley.—No, nor he woon't hev the stick, whether
you want it or no. You've got no call to come an'
talk about sticks o' these primises, as you woon't give
a stick tow'rt mending. Go to Middlemarch to ax for
your charrickter.
Mrs Dagley.—Yon'A far better hold your tongue,
Dagley, and not kick your own trough over. When
a man as is father of a family has been an' spent
money at market and made himself the worse for
liquor, he's done enough mischief for one day. But I
should like to know what my boy's done, sir.
Dagley.—Niver do you mind what he's done, it's
my business to speak, an' not yourn. An' I wull
speak, too. I'll hev my say—supper or no. An' what
I say is, as I've lived upo' your ground from my father
and grandfather afore me, an' hev dropped our money
into't, an' me an' my children might lie an' rot on the
ground for top-dressin' as we can't find the money to
buy, if the King wasn't to put a stop.
Mr Brooke—My good fellow, you're drunk, you
know. Another day, another day.
Dagley.—I'm no more drunk nor you are, nor so
much. I can carry my liquor, an' I know what I
meean. An' I meean as the King 'ull put a stop to't,
for them say it as knows it, as there's to be a Rinform,
and them landlords as never done the right thing by
their tenants 'ull be treated i' that way as they'll hev
to scuttle off. An' there's them i' Middlemarch knows
what the Rinform is — an' as knows who'll hev to
scuttle. Says they, ' I know who your landlord is.'
An' says I, ' I hope you're the better for knowin' him,
I arn't.' Says they, ' He's a close-fisted un.' 'A)', ay,'
says I. ' He's a man for the Rinform,' says they.
That's what they says. An' I made out what the

366

Various Characters.

Rinform wer—an' it wer to send you an' your likes
a-scuttlin' ; an' wi' pretty strong-smellin' things too.
An' you may do as you like now, for I'm none afeard
on you. An' you'd better let my boy aloan, an' look
to yoursen, afore the Rinform has got upo' your back.
That's what I'n got to say.
—o—
Mrs Mawmsey.—Does this Mr Lydgate mean to
say there is no use in taking medicine ? I should like
him to tell me how I could bear up at Fair time, if I
didn't take strengthening medicine for a month before
hand. Think of what I have to provide for calling
customers ! a large veal pie—a stuffed fillet—a round
of beef—ham, tongue, et cetera, et cetera ! But what
keeps me up best is the pink mixture, not the brown.
I wonder, Mr Mawmsey, with your experience, you
could have patience to listen. I should have told him
at once that I knew a little better than that.
Mr Mawmsey. — No, no, no ; I was not going to
tell him my opinion. Hear everything and judge for
yourself is my motto. But he didn't know who he
was talking to. I was not to be turned on his finger.
People often pretend to tell me things, when they
might as well say, ' Mawmsey, you're a fool.' But I
smile at it : I humour everybody's weak place. If
physic had done harm to self and family, I should
have found it out by this time.
Mrs Dollop.—Bulstrode was forced to take Old
Harry into his counsel, and Old Harry's been too
many for him.
Mr Crabbe.—Ay, ay, he's a 'complice you can't send
out o' the country.

Various Characters.

367

As to listening to what one lawyer says without
asking another— I wonder at a man o' your cleverness,
Mr Dill. . It's well known there's always two sides,
if no more ; else who'd go to law, I should like to
know ?—Mrs Dollop.
Mr Jonas.—Why shouldn't they dig the man up,
and have the Crowner? It's been done many and
many's the time. If there's been foul play they might
find it out.
Mrs Dollop.—Not they, Mr Jonas ! I know what
doctors are. They're a deal too cunning to be found
out. And this Doctor Lydgate that's been for cutting
up everybody before the breath was well out o' their
body—it's plain enough what use he wanted to make
o' looking into respectable people's insides. He knows
drugs, you may be sure, as you can neither smell nor
see, neither before they're swallowed nor after. Why,
I've seen drops myself ordered by Doctor Gambit,
as is our club doctor and a good charikter, and has
brought more live children into the world nor ever
another i' Middlemarch—I say I've seen drops myselt
as made no difference whether they was in the glass
or out, and yet have griped you the next day. So
I'll leave your own sense to judge. Don't tell me !
All I say is, it's a mercy they didn't . take this Doctor
Lydgate on to our club. There's many a mother's
child might ha' rued it.
