Nettle seed needs no digging.

People say what they like to say, not what they have chapter and verse
for.

He must be poor to know the luxury of giving.

I have always been thinking of the different ways in which Cristianity is taught, and whenever I find one way that makes it a wider blessing than any other, I cling to that as the truest.

What we call our despair, is often the painful eagerness of unfed hope.

Souls live on in perpetual echoes.

The terror of being judged sharpens the memory.

The truth is the hardest missile one can be pelted with.

A woman should produce the effect of exquisite music.

It is surely better to pardon too much than to condemn too much.

Marriage, which has been the bourne of so many narratives, is still a beginning, as it was to Adam and Eve, who kept their honeymoon in Eden, but had their first little one among the thorns and thistles of the wilderness.

You must love your work, and not be always looking over the edge of it, wanting your play to begin.

I believe that people are almost always better than their neighbors think they are.

What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult to each other?

The effective accident is but the touch of fire where there is oil and tow.

Here are conditions under which the most majestic person is obliged to sneeze.

There are answers which, in turning away wrath, only send it to the other end of the room.

When a man gets a good berth, half the deserving must come after.

What makes life dreary is the want of motive.

When gratitude has become a matter of reasoning, there are many ways of escaping from its bonds.

The shallowness of a water-nixie's soul may have a charm until she becomes didactic.

Souls have complexions too: what will suit one will not suit another. 

We can set a watch over our affections and our constancy as we can over other treasures.

The soul of man when it gets fairly rotten will bear you all sorts of poisonous toadstools.

By being contemptible we set men's minds to the tune of contempt.

The right word is always a power, and communicates its definiteness to our action.

In marriage, the certainty, “She will never love me much,” is easier to bear, than the fear, “I shall love her no more.”

Certainly the mistakes that we male and female mortals make when we have our own way might fairly raise some wonder that we are so fond of it.

To have in general but little feeling seems to be the only security against feeling too much on any particular occasion.

An old friend is not always the person whom it is easiest to make a conidant of.

The stronger thing is not to give up power, but to use it well.

We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves.

One's self-satisfaction is an untaxed kind of property which it is very unpleasant to find depreciated.

Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may be passing on us beings of wider speculation?

A woman, let her be as good as she may, has got to put up with the life her husband makes for her.

Notions and scruples are like spilled needles, making one afraid of treading, or sitting down, or even eating.
